 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 

The picture of a stern-looking Uncle Sam, finger pointed forward, casts a lasting image above the words:  “I want YOU for U.S. Army.”

The poster, originally published during World War I, marks one of the more memorable advertising campaigns in American history.

But now, a century later, a government review of Defense Department recruitment advertising finds Pentagon efforts lacking.

A report by the Government Accountability Office says “better coordination, performance measurement and oversight [is] needed to help meet recruitment goals.”

As GAO previously has found in a number of other government activities, “unnecessary duplication, overlap and fragmentation” in Pentagon recruitment efforts “may result from the absence of coordination,” according to the report.

“For example, the Air Force has three advertising programs that contract with three advertising agencies, but officials could not provide a rationale for requiring separate programs.”

And, unlike the Marine Corps, which can assess the impact of its advertising, the Army does not have data to evaluate whether its advertising is effective.

“Without fully measuring advertising performance, especially at the local levels,” GAO said, “DOD may be unable to ensure advertising dollars are used efficiently to help meet recruiting goals.”

The lack of oversight can lead to controversy.

Last November, Sens. John McCain and Jeff Flake, both Arizona Republicans, released a report critical of the Pentagon practice of paying sports teams to honor service members.

“In 2013,” the senators’ report begins, “a roaring crowd cheered as the Atlanta Falcons welcomed 80 National Guard members who unfurled an American flag across the Georgia Dome’s turf. Little did those fans — or millions of other Americans — know that the National Guard had actually paid the Atlanta Falcons for this display of patriotism as part of a $315,000 marketing contract. … This kind of paid patriotism is wholly unnecessary and a waste and abuse of taxpayer funds, and it must end.”

Noting this type of practice was “later deemed unacceptable by DOD,” GAO said “the absence of DOD oversight may have contributed to some activities of questionable appropriateness. …Without a department-wide policy that clearly defines its oversight role, DOD lacks reasonable assurance that advertising is carried out in an appropriate manner.”

The Pentagon generally agreed with GAO’s recommendations.

“Specifically,” according to GAO, “DOD concurred with our recommendations aimed at improving coordination and providing more direction to military service advertising.”

By the way, the Library of Congress says the “I want YOU” poster was “originally published as the cover for the July 6, 1916, issue of Leslie’s Weekly with the title ‘What Are You Doing for Preparedness?’ ”

Read more:

Report: At least 50 teams were paid by Department of Defense for patriotic displays

Report says federal fragmentation, overlap, duplication abound

 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

