Advertisement

Advertisement

By MATT FLEGENHEIMER and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 23, 2016


Senator Ted Cruz on Wednesday relentlessly belittled the foreign policy acumen of Donald J. Trump, casting him as dangerous and ill prepared one day after the terrorist attacks in Brussels refocused the presidential race on issues of national security.

In a searing critique in an interview before a Manhattan rally, Mr. Cruz, of Texas, seized on Mr. Trump’s suggestion that America should scale back its contribution to NATO, which has its headquarters in Brussels, calling the idea “a monumental victory” for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Islamic State.

He mocked the “so-called foreign policy advisers” that Mr. Trump announced with some fanfare this week.

“As I understand from the reporting, they haven’t met with Donald or even necessarily talked with Donald,” Mr. Cruz said.

He said that Mr. Trump betrayed “weakness and a dangerous isolationism” in his foreign policy views. Asked if Mr. Trump was any different from former Representative Ron Paul and Senator Rand Paul, dominant figures in the Republican Party’s libertarian wing, Mr. Cruz rejected any comparison.

Advertisement

“Ron Paul and Rand Paul both are informed and have a well-thought-out foreign policy position,” he said. “I disagree with many aspects of that position, but they actually know what they’re talking about.”

Mr. Cruz delivered his rebuke as his campaign moves to consolidate the support of those fiercely opposed to, and even frightened by, the prospect of Mr. Trump’s securing the Republican nomination. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Cruz received the endorsement of Jeb Bush who said that “we must move to overcome the divisiveness and vulgarity of Donald Trump.”

Mr. Cruz boasted often on Wednesday of his landslide victory in the Utah caucuses, suggesting that Mr. Trump was eager to change the subject. Late Tuesday, as results trickled in from Arizona (which Mr. Trump won decisively), Mr. Trump threatened on Twitter to “spill the beans” about Mr. Cruz’s wife, Heidi.

He implied that Mr. Cruz was responsible for a “super PAC” ad showing Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, a former model, during a nude photo shoot, but the Cruz campaign has no connection to the group. In the interview, Mr. Cruz said the attack from Mr. Trump “speaks volumes about his character.”

“Donald Trump may be used to bullying everyone around him, but Heidi is not scared of his bellowing attacks,” he said. “If Donald wants to engage in a character fight, he’s better off sticking with me because Heidi is way out of his league.”

Many observers recognized the line, which Mr. Cruz repeated throughout the day, as an echo from the Michael Douglas movie “The American President.”


                An interactive delegate calculator that lets you simulate how the 2016 Republican nomination could unfold.            

But Mr. Cruz reiterated his pledge to support Mr. Trump if he is the nominee, saying he had given his word, even as he predicted Mr. Trump would be “truly disastrous” in the fall election.

To date, Mr. Cruz has named only one situation in which he would not support Mr. Trump: if his opponent “were to go out on Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody,” as Mr. Trump once suggested he could do without losing votes.

Advertisement

On Wednesday, just off Fifth Avenue, Mr. Cruz spoke to supporters at a private club in Midtown, receiving a warm reception in a city with which he has a strained relationship. In January, Mr. Cruz attacked Mr. Trump as having “New York values,” citing his history of left-leaning positions. Mr. Trump defended himself in part by invoking the city’s response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

But on Wednesday, Mr. Cruz encountered few dissenters.

He spoke in a stately hall — with two chandeliers, cushioned seats and what appeared to be a gilded eagle — as a vendor out front, on West 51st Street, sold imitation designer bags and heavily discounted wool hats.

He peppered his remarks with allusions to New York Democrats, including Anthony Weiner and Representative Charles B. Rangel, and playful winks at local grievances.

“We can’t even afford a Big Gulp anymore!” Mr. Cruz said at one point, discussing the economy, in a nod to former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s ill-fated efforts to ban large sugary drinks.

“Not allowed to!” a woman shouted, a bit imprecisely, from an overflow room.

Mr. Cruz reserved his most pointed criticism for Mayor Bill de Blasio. On Tuesday, Mr. de Blasio and his police commissioner, William J. Bratton, sharply criticized Mr. Cruz for his calls to “patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods” in the wake of the violence in Brussels. Mr. de Blasio called the remarks “reprehensible” and accused Mr. Cruz of demagogy.

On Wednesday, Mr. Cruz by turns depicted Mr. de Blasio as a tool of the teachers’ union, an opponent of charter schools and an enemy of police officers.

He described a police protest against the mayor after the shooting deaths of two officers in 2014.

“When the heroes of the N.Y.P.D. stood up and turned their backs on Mayor de Blasio, they spoke not just for the men and women of New York but for Americans all across this nation,” Mr. Cruz said, to cheers.

Mr. Cruz is considered an underdog in the New York primary, given Mr. Trump’s local ties and the perception that a message of conservative purity mixed with evangelical appeals might not resonate. Yet in the crowd, there were signals of his potential strength, including several voters who cheered his “New York values” remarks.

Advertisement

“He understands New York politics,” said John Cudney, 33, from Williamsburg, Brooklyn.

And even in his neighborhood, Mr. Cudney said, the tide seemed to be turning for conservatives, if only slightly.

“It’s getting gentrified,” he said, gesturing toward his smart purple button-down. “There are more people who dress like me there.”

Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2016, on page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Cruz, a Day After Attacks in Brussels, Belittles Trump on Foreign Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe



See More »

Go to Home Page »

