

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Despite the numbers, Kasich finds himself trailing, with establishment support backing Cruz.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

John Kasich speaks at a news conference at the Minneapolis Club on March 22, 2016. (Photo: Glen Stubbe, AP)

Though John Kasich finds himself trailing in the Republican race, with his establishment friends now rallying around Ted Cruz, he may be the only one who could beat Hillary Clinton in November.

That’s according to a new poll by Monmouth University, which found that while Clinton beat both Cruz and Donald Trump in head-to-head scenarios, the former secretary of State trailed Kasich by 6 percentage points.

With Cruz pitted head-to-head against Clinton, he trailed by 6 percentage points. Trump trailed the Democratic front-runner by 10 points in a general election scenario.

The poll’s conclusion backs an earlier poll this week by Quinnipiac University, which also found Kasich to be the only Republican candidate to defeat Clinton head-to-head, leading her by eight percentage points.

Despite Kasich, Ohio's governor, being potentially the only Republican candidate who could defeat Clinton in a general election, support for his campaign has so far failed to materialize.

Establishment Republicans, including Jeb Bush, Mitt Romney and Lindsey Graham, are all voicing support for Cruz, who’s proven a stronger primary challenge to Trump, the front-runner.

Graham joked about his party’s failure to support Kasich on MSNBC Thursday, citing another figure suggesting Kasich could lead Clinton.

“Of all the people running. John Kasich wins by 11 points against Hillary, so he's absolutely out," Graham said. "Nobody wants a loser like that."

"Would John Kasich make a better president than Ted Cruz?" MSNBC's Mika Brzezinski asked.

“Think so,” Graham said.

The Monmouth Poll took place March 17-20 over phone and included 848 registered voters. The margin of error is +/- 3.4 percentage points.

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Poll: Kasich and Sanders would fare better in November than Trump, Clinton

