
2016


03/24/16 07:15 PM EDT


                                        By Theodoric Meyer

The prospect of the mogul as GOP nominee has Democrats hopeful they can unseat a rising star.


white house


03/24/16 07:13 PM EDT


                                        By Edward-Isaac Dovere

He won't let terrorism alter his plans, even in the face of Trump's taunts.


03/24/16 07:00 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

McCain said that Cruz would have to be successful because he didn’t have a choice.


03/24/16 07:00 PM EDT


                                        By Seung Min Kim

Their campaign begins Thursday and spans television, radio and digital ads.


03/24/16 06:48 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

Hogan is a close friend of former candidate Christie, who shocked many by endorsing Trump in February.


2016


03/24/16 06:18 PM EDT


                                        By Katie Glueck

He’s suffered from inflated expectations before. Now he’s making that gamble again.


03/24/16 05:53 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

“I am very strongly committed on the anti-roadkill approach.”


03/24/16 05:41 PM EDT


                                        Updated 03/24/16 05:37 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

Stanton said that the number of polling locations was cut by 85 percent from the 2008 primary and 70 percent from the 2012 primary.


03/24/16 05:18 PM EDT


                                        By Henry C. Jackson

It will cost more than four times the average annual income in San Francisco to eat dinner next to Hillary Clinton and the Clooneys there next month.


03/24/16 05:07 PM EDT


                                        By Katie Glueck

"He does have a chance if he can secure enough delegates to head in to a brokered convention.”


03/24/16 04:50 PM EDT


                                        By Mike Zapler

The Kansas Republican breaks with Senate leadership. 


                                        Updated 03/24/16 04:36 PM EDT


                                        By Sarah Wheaton and Edward-Isaac Dovere

'Unless we can find common ground, how can the system designed by our founders function,' the vice president says.


03/24/16 04:34 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

“Candidates who are working without party resources or wealthy donors cannot and will not gain traction unless they can depend on us, the American people,”...


03/24/16 04:27 PM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

“Well I wouldn’t defend anything that Sen. Cruz and Mr. Trump says, or believes in, or stands for,” she says. 


                                        Updated 03/24/16 04:20 PM EDT


                                        By Nolan D. McCaskill

“Leave Heidi the hell alone," Cruz says.


03/24/16 04:05 PM EDT


                                        By Hanna Trudo

“Bernie Sanders is the best candidate for America’s working families,” ILWU International President Robert McEllrath said.  


03/24/16 03:58 PM EDT


03/24/16 03:28 PM EDT


                                        By Annie Karni and Kenneth P. Vogel

The Bay Area fundraiser, hosted at the home of venture capitalist Shervin Pishevar, is one of two events starring the Clooneys.


03/24/16 03:19 PM EDT


                                        By Nahal Toosi

Kerry was carrying his own luggage when he visited Moscow.


                                        Updated 03/24/16 03:07 PM EDT


                                        By Nick Gass

While acknowledging that he had made inappropriate advances and remarks to an aide, Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley is maintaining that he did not have a physical...


                                        By Maia de La Baume and Giulia Paravicini


03/24/16 02:50 PM EDT


03/24/16 02:20 PM EDT


                                        By Josh Gerstein

Attorney General Loretta Lynch said Thursday that the new indictment sends a “powerful message."


03/24/16 02:18 PM EDT


                                        Updated 03/24/16 02:08 PM EDT


                                        By Joseph Marks

The indictment alleges that the hackers used the attacks on the financial institutions to slow the targets' computer systems.


03/24/16 02:00 PM EDT


                                        By Isaac Arnsdorf 

Sobel to kglobal — McCleery leaves Stabenow


03/24/16 01:57 PM EDT


                                        By Associated Press

A fight with a fellow Republican is causing Christie the most immediate concern.


03/24/16 01:49 PM EDT


                                        By Nolan D. McCaskill

“I think if it’s an open convention, it’s very likely [the nominee] would be someone who’s not currently running,” Walker said.


                                        By Tim Ball 


                                        By Stephen Brown and Kate Day


03/24/16 12:23 PM EDT


03/24/16 12:22 PM EDT


03/24/16 12:13 PM EDT


                                        Updated 03/24/16 12:00 PM EDT


                                        By Nick Gass

He said on multiple occasions “there is no perfect person.”


                                        Updated 03/24/16 11:46 AM EDT


                                        By Peter Sterne

Lawsuit written by mentally ill inmate aggregated by news outlets


03/24/16 11:45 AM EDT


                                        By Nolan D. McCaskill

The terrorist attacks that ravaged Brussels through a series of explosions Tuesday is unlikely to inspire copycat attacks in the homeland, FBI Director...


03/24/16 11:11 AM EDT


                                        By Eliza Collins

His Thursday morning fell all over the map.


03/24/16 11:03 AM EDT


                                        By Nick Gass

Though he may be running behind Ted Cruz and Donald Trump in most state and national polls, only John Kasich can definitively say that he would beat Hillary...


03/24/16 10:38 AM EDT


03/24/16 10:12 AM EDT


                                        By Nolan D. McCaskill

Trump is holding a town hall at a conference center in Janesville, Wisconsin, Paul Ryan's backyard.


03/24/16 10:06 AM EDT


                                        By Rachana Pradhan

The group is hoping to capitalize on sign-up gains seen nationwide over the last two years.


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Bernie Becker

Turning 6103 on its head — House presses for action on seized assets


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Martine Powers

Republicans skeptical about anti-terrorism measure in FAA bill — Cummings talks partnership with Uber on criminal justice reform


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Dan Diamond

AARP bullish on Part B demo — ICYMI: What the Supreme Court said on birth control


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Tim Starks

Getting Israel involved — DHS budget on track for a cyber boost


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Alex Byers and Kate Tummarello

The FBI's third party revealed ... maybe — AT&T mobile chief eyeing FCC before sponsored data expansion


03/24/16 10:00 AM EDT


                                        By Elena Schneider

Down-ballot strategists seek to limit undervoting amidst presidential turnout — Sestak goes after the DSCC

We're working on more stories right now


2016


                        Behind the candidate with an inspirational life story is a campaign riven by disputes and backbiting.


            By Kyle Cheney

01/21/16 08:42 PM EST


                        Updated 01/21/16 10:28 PM EST


                Ben Carson speaks at the States and Nation Policy Summit of the American Legislative Exchange Council on Dec. 4, 2015, in Phoenix. | AP Photo

On Thanksgiving night, Ben Carson sat in a chartered plane on a Baltimore airport tarmac surrounded by his wife and campaign advisers. The destination: Jordan.

A secret mission to the Middle East, his team hoped, would help reestablish the retired neurosurgeon’s credibility amid searing questions about his shaky grasp of foreign policy. The trip would be kept under wraps until Carson appeared on the Sunday news shows from the location — partly a security measure, partly a political play. 

Story Continued Below

But as Carson and his team awaited takeoff, they were blindsided when The New York Times posted a story outlining the entire plan. Rattled staffers worried the story could tip militants to Carson's location. Yet they instinctively knew where the story came from: Armstrong Williams. 

Williams, a longtime conservative media force who calls himself Carson's "business manager," has no formal role in the campaign. But his outsized influence on its inner workings proved to be a highly divisive issue within the campaign, one that ultimately led to the departures of much of Carson’s senior staff.

To those who left the campaign, the tarmac episode was emblematic of a campaign in freefall, a bitterly divided operation trapped in a cycle of dysfunction that helped drag Carson from the top of the polls in late October to the middle of the pack by January. 

On one side was Williams, a Carson friend for decades who had been the candidate's closest adviser since he launched his presidential bid last May. On the other was spokesman Doug Watts and veteran GOP operative Barry Bennett, the campaign manager who routinely found himself at odds with Williams over messaging and strategy — and often in an embarrassingly public way. 

Bennett, Watts and several other senior staffers ultimately left the campaign on New Year's Eve, citing sharp differences with Williams. Since then, Bennett has predicted Donald Trump will win the GOP nomination.

In a wide-ranging interview Wednesday after a talk at Georgetown University's Institute of Politics and Public Service, Bennett and Watts said they were disillusioned with Carson, the politician, and his refusal to hold Williams accountable in any way for the campaign’s predicament — including the pivotal moment they point to as the beginning of the end.

In their eyes, the Carson campaign was on a trajectory for victory in Iowa until Nov. 17, the day another New York Times story stunned the campaign: an interview with Duane Clarridge, an octogenarian former CIA operative whom Williams described as one of Carson's top foreign policy advisers. 

The interview, arranged by Williams, was meant to shore up faith in Carson's foreign policy credentials in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in Paris and questions about his readiness to be commander in chief. Instead, the story delivered a bombshell from his own adviser's mouth: Carson had been struggling to learn the basics of world affairs.

 Within days, fundraising all but stopped.

"Financial problems for the campaign started on the 20th of November when we hit the cliff," Watts said. 

The campaign, which had expected to collect $40 million in the final three months of the year, ended the quarter collecting $23 million — an amount that was largely sapped by expenses. A formidable list-building effort that Bennett said was on track to amass 4 million small donors plateaued at 3 million. Carson's Facebook following, which had surged over the year to surpass 5 million, suddenly slowed as well.

"I’ve got this dashboard on my computer where I can see up to the minute how the money’s flowing, and it just stopped, full brake," Bennett said, though he added the campaign had plenty of money on Jan. 1 to sustain operations through the early-state primaries and caucuses in February.


2016


            By Michael Crowley

Bennett noted that Carson had been getting a crash course in foreign affairs, just not from Clarridge.

"We were having lunch with Henry Kissinger, he was talking to Bud McFarlane. Rupert Murdoch was introducing him to all his foreign policy friends," Bennett said. "He was learning a lot."

Williams acknowledged the error of connecting the reporter with Clarridge without Bennett or Watts' knowledge.

"That was bad judgment on my part. There’s no question about that," he said in an interview.

Carson campaign spokesman Larry Ross, who succeeded Watts earlier this month, said the campaign was not interested in responding to — or even hearing — specific details offered and assertions made by Williams and former top campaign officials. But he issued a statement emphasizing that Williams is not an official staffer. "Armstrong Williams remains a close, longtime friend of Dr. Carson, who cares deeply about him and his success in this election; but he does not have an official role in the campaign, nor does he speak for Dr. Carson or his team," Ross said. "Dr. Carson's campaign is moving forward in a positive direction and not looking backwards. He is encouraged by the increased momentum and energetic, overflow crowds in Iowa and everywhere he goes. They are enthusiastically responding to his values-driven message, forward-leaning policies and common-sense leadership."

The Clarridge debacle was the most flagrant of many spats that defined the relationship between Williams and the staffers running the Carson campaign. There was a dispute over an unexpected $22,000 tab from Williams' private security consultant, who often ferried Carson around Washington and staffed him during his trips to the capital. Williams’ decision to hire a well-known music producer, Khao Cates, to produce an official campaign song — after the campaign had already paid hip-hop producer Alexi von Guggenberg to do the same — only increased tension. Another interview gone wrong — again arranged by Williams — about Carson's faith and his unorthodox views of heaven and hell became opposition fodder in evangelical-rich Iowa.

Williams said he bears no bitterness toward Bennett and Watts but regrets that "they are airing the laundry, which is sad." 

"This is part of their manipulation,” he said. “They’re spinning it to try and make me look like the bad guy and the scapegoat.”

One thing the parties can agree on: Nothing was the same after the Jordan trip.

Watts referred to the Thanksgiving tarmac episode as the night he "checked out of the campaign." 

When the story appeared, Carson — who gave the Times an interview for the story — told his campaign leaders that it wasn't supposed to have run for a few more days. Bennett and Watts were still incensed he'd hidden the interview from them.





            By Kyle Cheney

 "When I realized that Ben was conscious of the error, was conscious of the secreting of this information and in this case, it involved the safety of Ben, his wife, Barry, and this other young woman who was traveling with him, I was appalled," Watts said. "And Ben was complicit. So for me, there weren’t any more questions to ask after that." 

Williams contends Bennett and Watts were actually aware that Carson had done the pre-Jordan trip interview. They just didn’t realize the story would publish before the plane took off.

"Barry sent me the most explosive and threatening email you can imagine," Williams said. "This is where Barry and Doug and I rarely spoke again."

Williams said the dispute, like many others with the campaign, was rooted in a fundamental disagreement about how to handle media relations. Williams said the campaign seemed content to only let Carson appear in conservative-leaning news outlets and on Fox News, while he felt it was important for the candidate to give interviews to mainstream media outlets that could reach a broader audience.

"I like to make sure that if Dr. Carson is going to Jordan that major media in New York and Europe pick up on the story," he said.

As the campaign's conflicts flared publicly, Carson repeatedly said Williams doesn’t speak for him or the campaign. And Williams himself would often emphasize that he has no official role on Carson's campaign.

"Which is complete and utter bullsh--," Bennett said.

Asked why Carson would often downplay his relationship with Williams, Bennett added, "I don’t know. I think he’s just living in an alternative universe."

Bennett and Watts say Carson’s refusal to rein in Williams undercut the entire premise of Carson's campaign: accountability. Another premise, they agreed, was Carson's self-proclaimed ability to build a world-class team. The campaign, they said, seemed to be a living refutation of that idea.

"It defies imagination that Ben would see, recognize, acknowledge these issues, these hurdles, these problems, these potholes and allow them to continue. The only thing that I’ve been able to come up with is that Armstrong was his entrée to public affairs in Washington, and he’s become his comfort food, his mac ‘n cheese," Watts said. 

Bennett said he reached his boiling point with Williams on Dec. 23. On a day marked for filming policy videos at Carson's home, Williams arranged interviews between Carson and several reporters with a clear purpose: to signal a coming campaign shakeup and last-ditch attempt to rebound. 

"I mean, if you wanted me to quit, all you had to do was just call me and say, 'Hey, why don’t you go do something else?'" Bennett said. "I would’ve just kind of slowly disappeared."


                            Ben Carson speaks during the Iowa State Fair on August 16, 2015 in Des Moines, | Getty

Instead, those stories took an awkward turn when Carson walked back his call for a shake-up, releasing a statement that had been approved by Watts expressing full confidence in his campaign leadership. 

By then, Bennett had already decided he was leaving the campaign, and on New Year's Eve, after a morning call to inform Carson he'd once again topped the field in fundraising, Bennett resigned, followed shortly by Watts and several other senior campaign officials.

Bennett says the smartest move would be for Carson to drop out immediately and endorse Donald Trump, helping him clinch victory in Iowa and carry momentum through the rest of the primaries.

 "I don’t think he’ll do that," Bennett added. "I think he’ll wait too long."

 Williams attributes the suggestion, and Bennett’s prediction of a Trump nomination, to ulterior motives.





            By Kyle Cheney and David Cohen

 "What some of us have concluded — and we could be wrong — is that either Barry is being paid by the Trump campaign, or he’s trying to get a job with the Trump campaign," he said. (Bennett insists he has no intention to work for another presidential candidate this cycle.)

Asked whether he deserves a share of the blame for the campaign's decline in the polls, Williams said he accepts a share of credit for building the campaign up, as well as blame for its crash.

"In life, as in campaigns, as in business ... even the president of the United States, you take credit when everything is good and you take credit when everything is bad. The two are inseparable," he said. 

"The season changed" after terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Williams observed. 

"Who do you blame for that? They could blame me, I could blame them. I’m not going to do that. It’s just like a force of nature. Something came along that none of us could foresee."


                                            By Ben Wofford


                                            By Malcolm Nance


                                            By Marion Smith


                                            By Rich Lowry

 © 2016 POLITICO LLC

