

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

The news comes after reporters have been reportedly bruised and choked at Trump's events.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Photojournalist Christopher Morris, center, was choke-slammed by a Secret Service agent at a Donald Trump rally. (Photo: Steve Helber, AP)

What happens when battleground states start to feel more like, you know, just battlegrounds?

According to The Washington Post, political reporters at NPR were offered a 90-minute training session on “hostile-environment awareness,” the type of classes typically offered over multiple days for war zone correspondents.

“In this case, NPR’s scaled-down sessions might be called Trump Training,” the Post’s Paul Farhi wrote.

Violent incidents have unfolded at Trump’s rallies on a seemingly regular basis. In recent months, journalists have reportedly been bruised and choke-slammed at Trump’s events while protesters have been shoved by white supremacists or sucker-punched while in custody.

Trump himself has been accused of egging on the violence, saying from the podium that he wanted to punch one protester “in the face.”

The atmosphere at his events have not always proved, shall we say, genteel toward the press.

Trump trashes press. Crowd jeers. Guy by press 'pen' looks at us & screams "you're a bitch!" Other gentleman gives cameras the double bird.

NPR confirmed the training but wouldn’t go in-depth with the Post. Michael Oreskes, senior vice president of news, said the training is for “dangerous or possibly hostile environments.”

No other news organizations appear to have trained political reporters covering Trump in hostile-environment awareness, the Post reported. That includes USA TODAY.

A network spokeswoman, Isabel Lara, said the sessions aimed to help with “the stress of covering a very demanding story for a long period of time.”

A long period as in, eight months to eight years?

[h/t The Washington Post]

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Trump blames 'agitators' for violence at rallies

USA TODAY

Donald Trump's attacks on the news media: A not-so-short history

