Advertisement

Senator Ted Cruz, smarting over Donald J. Trump’s menacing Twitter messages about his wife, thrashed his rival on Thursday and warned him to “leave Heidi the hell alone.”

Calling Mr. Trump a “small and petty man” who is easily cowed by “strong women,” Mr. Cruz said in front of  reporters in Wisconsin,  “Donald, you’re a sniveling coward.”

The attack was the latest in an intensifying skirmish that began late Tuesday, when Mr. Trump took to Twitter and threatened to “spill the beans” about Mrs. Cruz, without giving any specifics. He blamed the Texas senator for a “super PAC” ad that appeared in Utah and featured Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, a former model, during a nude photo shoot. But Mr. Cruz has no connection to the group responsible for the spot.

Late Wednesday, Mr. Trump further taunted the Texas senator, posting another message on Twitter from a supporter that included an unflattering picture of Mrs. Cruz, juxtaposed with an image of Mrs. Trump.

“No need to ‘spill the beans,’” read the accompanying text. “The images are worth a thousand words.”

The sparring comes as Mr. Trump is facing renewed scrutiny for his attitudes toward women, with an anti-Trump Super PAC, Our Principles PAC, running an ad in which actresses repeat some of his more pointed insults of women and comments about their appearance.

At his news conference, Mr. Cruz raised the prospect of telling his daughters, ages 7 and 5, about the episode. 

“Our girls are going to come join us on the road later this afternoon,” he said. “I’m not looking forward to telling the girls why Donald Trump is launching insults and attacks at their mommy.”

Mr. Cruz was asked if he could still support Mr. Trump as the Republican nominee, as he has pledged to do if Mr. Trump wins.

“Donald Trump will not be the nominee,” he said. “Donald Trump will not be the nominee.”

The Trump campaign did not respond to a message seeking comment.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.


		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		


Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
        


			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			

