

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Even some anti-Trump GOP voters don't want a contested convention, and both parties may wish they backed someone else when November rolls around.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

We won't have more voting for another three days on the Democratic side, and it's another 12 days before anything happens with the Republicans, so we're going to break out our crayons again and daydream about a contested convention. If you're as bored as we are, take a moment to subscribe to the For the Record newsletter. In today's edition: we look at the latest Trump/NeverTrump poll, Cruz drops an Aaron Sorkin quote, and voters are already longing for the candidates that got away.

"You like me! You kind of like me!" (Photo: Evan Vucci, AP)

Schrodinger's candidate Donald Trump got mixed news from a Monmouth University poll: Republican voters may not be all-in on Trump, but they're not fans of party upheaval, either. The poll shows that the GOP's front-runner has the support of 41% of Republicans and lean-Republicans in the three-man race. Still, 54% say the party should get behind Trump if he comes into the convention with the most delegates, even if he doesn't have enough to clinch the nomination outright. Among fans of Cleveland convention chaos, 33% say they want to see Ted Cruz emerge as the nominee, while 23% back Kasich. Others getting support include Marco Rubio (10%), Ben Carson (5%), Mitt Romney (4%), Jeb Bush (3%), and Paul Ryan (2%).

The poll didn't ask who voters thought would be the best kisser, unfortunately. (Photo: AP)

This fall, while voters are slow-dancing at the General Election Prom with either Trump or Hillary Clinton, they're going to look longingly across the gymnasium to see Bernie Sanders and John Kasich and wonder what might have been. At least that's what a new Quinnipiac University poll says. In hypothetical matchups, Sanders fares better against Trump than Clinton does  — up 14 points vs. 6 points; Kasich does better against Clinton than Trump does — an 8-point victory as opposed to a 6-point loss. (For what it's worth, Sanders vs. Kasich is a toss-up, with Kasich barely edging Sanders, 45% to 44%). If things go south for either front-runner, will the party faithful wish they asked someone else to the big dance?

"I have just one thing to say to Donald Trump: 'It's turkey time.'" (Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)

It's the most innocuous, adorable campaign scandal in weeks: Ted Cruz quoted "The American President" without attribution. The feud between Cruz and Donald Trump over their wives' honor went into Day Two yesterday, and Cruz paraphrased an Aaron Sorkin-penned quote during a CNN interview Tuesday: " ... if Donald wants to get into a character fight, he's better off sticking with me," Cruz said, "because Heidi is way out of his league." Given Cruz's propensity to quote movies, he may want to hire an official campaign footnote spokesperson to follow him around for the rest of the year ("That line he just said, that's from 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' ... that one there, that's Bugs Bunny.") Alternatively, he could just start quoting "Gigli"; he could do that for months before anyone notices.



If the campaign isn't already enough of a horror show for you, Vocativ's Erin Gloria Ryan figured out a way to make it way, way worse.

Hm Ted Cruz is making some good points tonight on @oreillyfactorpic.twitter.com/FJFkizoOfJ

