Advertisement

Advertisement

By MEGAN TWOHEYMARCH 24, 2016


Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a Republican presidential candidate, speaking at an addiction policy forum in New Hampshire about his half sister’s struggles with painkillers.

MEDIA, Pa. — In 1997, Ted Cruz was a young lawyer on the climb when a pressing family matter pulled him to a seedy motel outside Philadelphia.

His half sister Miriam Cruz was living there, spiraling deeper into drug addiction. She was neglecting her young son. And Mr. Cruz was determined to steer her back on track.

With a “really studious schoolboy look,” Mr. Cruz walked up the steps of the motel, his appearance notable at a place where rooms rented by the hour and unsavory characters lurked behind drawn curtains, said Michael Gunning, Ms. Cruz’s boyfriend at the time.

But after a long lunch with Mr. Cruz and their father, Rafael Cruz, Ms. Cruz was unmoved, Mr. Gunning said. Within months, she and Mr. Gunning were arrested at the motel for fighting with several men during a drug deal. In their room, a police report noted, officers found two crack pipes.

With his sharp intellect and steely resolve, Ted Cruz has propelled himself through one accomplishment after another: Princeton, Harvard Law, a Supreme Court clerkship, the United States Senate, and now a strong contender for the Republican presidential nomination.

Advertisement

But as his life was taking off, his half sister’s was going in the opposite direction, a snowballing misery of bad choices, bad luck and, most of all, a losing battle with drugs.

Through her Mr. Cruz became acquainted with a world far from the towers of the Ivy League and the corridors of power — so far that several of Ms. Cruz’s friends interviewed recently did not even know Mr. Cruz was running for president.

He fielded phone calls from his half sister when she landed in jail. He kept tabs on her as she bounced from boyfriend to boyfriend, job to job, and in and out of rehab. He took a particular interest in making sure that her son was cared for, including taking out a large credit card advance to send him to a military-themed boarding school. Ms. Cruz, friends said, came to look up to her younger half brother and to rely on his help.

But Mr. Cruz, accustomed to achieving everything he set his mind to, also learned the limits of what he could accomplish. Despite periods of sobriety, Ms. Cruz continued in her drug abuse and arrests until 2011, when she died of an accidental overdose in a bedroom strewn with prescription pill bottles.

“This is a problem that for me I understand firsthand,” Mr. Cruz said during a presidential debate when asked about the country’s drug epidemic. He then pressed his case for strengthening the border to, in part, stem the flow of illegal drugs.

But at a less guarded moment, during a forum on addiction in New Hampshire last month, Mr. Cruz was uncharacteristically introspective.

“You know as a family, you wonder, ‘Could I have done more?’” he said. “Was there a way to pull her back? Was there a way to change the path she was on? Those are the questions you never fully answer.”

Mr. Cruz declined to be interviewed for this article about his half sister. But in his memoir, “A Time for Truth,” and occasionally during the campaign, Mr. Cruz has spoken of his relationship with Miriam, one of two daughters from his father’s first marriage.

Advertisement

Miriam was a frequent visitor to Rafael Cruz’s new family, letting his toddler son Ted, nine years younger, pull on her hair and play with her for hours.

As a teenager, Ted would sometimes spend the night with Miriam and her husband, Larry Maykopet, who lived a few blocks away from the Cruz home in Houston, Mr. Maykopet said.

Mr. Cruz said in his book that Mr. Maykopet physically abused Ms. Cruz. Friends of Ms. Cruz’s said she told them the same thing.

In an interview, Mr. Maykopet said he had never abused Ms. Cruz. He said their relationship ended in 1987, a couple of years after their son, Joseph Maykopet, was born, when he returned to his native Illinois to serve a prison sentence. In 1993, they divorced.

By that time, Ms. Cruz and their young son were settled in Delaware County, Pa., outside Philadelphia. At first, they enjoyed a stable life. Ms. Cruz had a well-paying office job, and was in a relationship with a caring postal worker, said Dawn Dyer, a close friend of Ms. Cruz’s.

Ms. Cruz also liked to have fun. She and Ms. Dyer would go to karaoke bars, where Ms. Cruz, a petite woman with long hair, would belt out “La Bamba” and sip on Seagram’s and 7Up.

Advertisement

“She was so sweet and full of life,” Ms. Dyer recalled.

But, Ms. Dyer said, after two car accidents that left Ms. Cruz in relentless pain, she became addicted to prescription medication.

Ms. Cruz met Mr. Gunning when both were patients in a rehabilitation center in Media, Pa.

“She was 10 pounds of dynamite packed in a one-pound box,” Mr. Gunning said.

Advertisement

Once out of rehab, they united in their abuse of a variety of drugs.

“We were just looking to fill an empty spot and void in our lives,” said Mr. Gunning, a mechanic who said he had since recovered from drug addiction.

Ms. Cruz began a pattern of arrests, primarily for shoplifting, and stints behind bars, police and court records show.

Lanne Kowal, who received a police citation in 1998 for stealing Tylenol from a Quality Discount Store with Ms. Cruz, recalled driving her in her red Pontiac Firebird into Philadelphia, where they would sell stolen items, and buy and do heroin in a part of the city known as the Badlands.

“We would cop, drive out of the neighborhood a little bit, and pull over where we could in a desolate area,” said Ms. Kowal, who changed her name from Lynne Ann Margadonna and said she stopped using drugs 18 years ago.

In 1997, Mr. Cruz, after a year clerking with Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, joined the Washington law firm Cooper, Carvin & Rosenthal.

Sometime that year, he and his father drove to Philadelphia, he later wrote, “leaving our watches, rings, money, and wallets in D.C., because we didn’t know if we’d be robbed or shot at the crack house where Miriam was living.”

(The motel was certainly shady, Mr. Gunning said, but it was not a crack house.)

But when Mr. Cruz and his father took her to a nearby Denny’s, Mr. Cruz wrote, they could not get through to her.

Ms. Cruz was hopelessly angry, he wrote in “A Time for Truth.”

“Angry that her parents divorced when she was a little girl, angry that her father missed a high school swim meet of hers.”

Advertisement

“I wasn’t terribly understanding,” he added, recounting his tough-love approach. “I pointed out to her that our aunt, Tia Sonia, had experienced far worse — horrific things in a Cuban jail — and yet she raised our Cousin Bibi as a single mom. I told Miriam she needed to stop wallowing in self-pity and do what was needed for her son.”

Unable to steer Ms. Cruz out of addiction, Mr. Cruz focused on helping her son. Taking out a $20,000 advance on his credit card, he enrolled Joseph in Valley Forge Military Academy in Wayne, Pa., hoping that the boarding school would instill discipline and order in the boy’s life.

Ms. Kowal recalled meeting Mr. Cruz at one of Joseph’s school events she attended with Ms. Cruz.

“He didn’t say much to me or her,” Ms. Kowal said. “I remember her saying, ‘That’s my brother, that’s the one putting Joey through school.’”

“But their relationship was not that touchy-feely type of relationship you’d expect from siblings,” she added.

Ms. Dyer, Ms. Cruz’s close friend, said she and her husband assumed temporary guardianship of Joseph with Ms. Cruz’s permission.

Ms. Cruz “knew at that time she wasn’t in the right situation for her son,” she said. And Joseph, bullied at his new school, left Valley Forge after one year, she said.

Mr. Cruz kept tabs on Joseph, Ms. Dyer said, and sent gifts and money for his clothes.

There were glimmers of hope. Ms. Cruz went through stretches of getting off drugs, her friends said. Years later, she and Joseph resumed living together.

It was Joseph, then 25, who found her dead in their Collingdale, Pa., home in January 2011, according to a Collingdale police report.

Advertisement

In the bedroom where she died, the police found a “handbag spilled out onto the bed in front of the deceased along with numerous prescription bottles.”

The Delaware County medical examiner determined Ms. Cruz died of “mixed prescription drug intoxication” and ruled the death an accident.

At the drug addiction forum last month in New Hampshire, Mr. Cruz recalled learning of Ms. Cruz’s death.

“We just got the call one day that Miriam was gone,” he said. “These tragedies are happening in human lives all over this country. It’s the human journey. It’s not an easy one.”

At the same time, Mr. Cruz told the forum that some stories of addiction have happy endings. A contrast to Miriam, he said, was their father.

His heavy drinking was a reason for his divorce from Miriam’s mother (who died in 2013), and it led him to abandon Ted and his mother for a time.

But then his father found religion and turned his life around, Mr. Cruz said. His father, he said, has not had a drink in 40 years.

The elder Mr. Cruz, a preacher, now travels the country campaigning for his son.

Ted Cruz’s nephew, meanwhile, appeared with him in a campaign video posted on YouTube. Mr. Maykopet spoke of life with his troubled mother and of the man who kept watch over him from afar.

“With guidance from my Uncle Ted and the rest of my family, I was able to get past that part of my life,” Mr. Maykopet said. “My Uncle Ted has been a huge inspiration for me ever since I was younger — just to progress, and just to keep moving forward.”

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

See More »

Go to Home Page »

