

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Hillary Clinton holds a 10-point lead on Donald Trump in Michigan in a head-to-head matchup of the front-runners for the presidential nominations of their respective parties, a new poll shows.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton and Republican front-runner Donald Trump. (Photo: AP)

Hillary Clinton holds a 10-point lead on Donald Trump in Michigan in a head-to-head matchup of the front-runners for the presidential nominations of their respective parties, a new poll shows.

EPIC-MRA’s poll of 600 likely voters in the November general election shows Clinton, who leads Bernie Sanders for the Democratic nomination, with a 47%-37% edge over Trump, who has a built a strong lead in the race to secure the Republican nomination. Sixteen percent remained undecided.

“Everything that is causing national Republicans to be worried about having Donald Trump at the top of the Republican ticket is being borne out in what we’re seeing in Michigan,” said pollster Bernie Porn, noting efforts by Mitt Romney and others establishment Republicans to deny Trump the nomination.

The poll, which was conducted from last Saturday to this Tuesday, has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points and shows Clinton building on what was then a within-the-margin-of-error lead over Trump of 43%-41% in a January EPIC-MRA poll.

The change in Trump’s fortunes since then, said Porn, has been fueled by increasing media coverage of the candidate’s positions and a perception by some of violence against protesters at his rallies, though Trump has maintained he does not encourage violence. Trump’s unfavorable rating in the poll shot up to a staggering 66%, from 57% in January.

USA TODAY

Will 2016 be the nastiest presidential campaign in decades?

Porn said that while an earlier EPIC-MRA poll showing Clinton leading Sanders in this month’s primary election by 25 points turned out to be wrong — Sanders won Michigan on March 8 — that was based in part on turnout models from elsewhere that were far different than those experienced at the Michigan polls. There also hadn't been a truly competitive primary election in both parties’ primaries in a presidential year for more than a decade, making it difficult to forecast turnout.

A general election poll, like this one, is different, Porn said, with more tried-and-true models to use.

The poll shows that Clinton, too, has high unfavorable ratings – from 54% of those surveyed – but it’s still well under Trump’s mark. Also, when all likely voters across the political spectrum were asked which Democratic nominee they would prefer to be the nominee, it wasn’t her, it was Sanders.

But that question – which included Republican responses regarding a Democratic nominee and vice versa — held the same trap for Trump, with more people, again across the political spectrum, preferring Ohio Gov. John Kasich to be the Republican nominee than Trump.

EPIC-MRA’s poll did not test other head-to-head matchups between the potential general election candidates, but the one it did survey indicated deep problems for Trump in winning Michigan, despite what is considered a likely strategy of his campaign to try to mine working class voting blocs across the industrial Midwest with his “Make America Great Again” campaign.

Clinton led among all age groups but one – those over 65 years of age, and it was a 44%-44% tie among those voters. Among racial groups, Trump had a slight 43%-41% edge with white voters overall, but it was overwhelmed by her edge among black voters — which was 90% to 7% — and among other races, which supported her 50% to 27% with 23% undecided.

Perhaps more significantly than any other indications in the poll were ones that women, overall, supported Clinton 51% to 35%, while she also held a small edge — 43% to 40% — over Trump among men, a virtual tie.

For more details on the poll, see the Detroit Free Press.

