

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Yup, the candidates' wives are getting dragged into the fray.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs


    Republican presidential hopeful Sen. Ted Cruz hammered Donald Trump over Trump's commitment to NATO following Tuesday's deadly terror attack in Brussels. Monday, Trump said the U.S. role in NATO may need to be reduced in the future. (March 22)
    AP

After all the insults, vitriol and even a debate over the relative size of a certain GOP candidate's appendages, it was only a matter of time before the 2016 campaign reached another new low in presidential politics.

This time the candidates' spouses were dragged into the fray.

The latest squabble started — as so many do — with a tweet from Donald Trump.

Trump — incensed because he thought Ted Cruz had used a photo of his wife, Melania, in a campaign ad — threatened to "spill the beans" on Cruz's wife, Heidi.

Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G.Q. shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!

This was actually the bellicose billionaire's second tweet on the subject in a short span. He deleted the original, but if you thought he did so because he feared he had overstepped, well, you don't know Donald Trump. He had simply forgotten to include his trademark insult for Cruz: "Lyin' Ted."

It isn't entirely clear what beans about Heidi Cruz that Trump intended to spill, but Cruz wasn't taking it lyin' down. Cruz said the photo didn't come from his campaign and added, "if you try to attack Heidi, you're more of a coward than I thought." He threw in the hashtag #classless for good measure.

Pic of your wife not from us. Donald, if you try to attack Heidi, you're more of a coward than I thought. #classlesshttps://t.co/0QpKSnjgnE

At the rate this thing is going, we might be looking at the first primary to be settled with a bare-knuckled boxing match.

