2016 hopefuls look East, West for delegate support
























         COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo.        (AP) -- Looking both East and West for support, Republican presidential candidates angled Saturday to pick up more delegates in Colorado while at the same time bidding for favor a half-continent away in New York&apos;s all-important April 19 primary.

Republican Ted Cruz hoped to add to his edge in Colorado over front-runner Donald Trump when 13 more delegates were to be chosen at the state&apos;s GOP convention. Cruz already had locked up the support of 21 Colorado delegates and visited the state to try to pad his numbers there.

Trump left the Colorado convention to his organizers, and spent about a half-hour on Saturday touring the National Sept. 11 Memorial and Museum in lower Manhattan. The billionaire businessman, who makes much of the heroism of New Yorkers after the 9/11 attacks, left without speaking to reporters who were invited along for the visit.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich, far behind Trump and Cruz in the delegate, also was campaigning in New York.

Democratic presidential hopefuls, too, were focused on New York&apos;s big trove of delegates.

Bernie Sanders, who grew up in Brooklyn, kicked off a four-day New York City swing at a theater in Manhattan. He took a light-hearted jab at Hillary Clinton&apos;s move to New York in 2000 to represent the state in the U.S. Senate.

Speaking about the upcoming New York primary, Sanders said: "Remember, this is Hillary Clinton&apos;s adopted home state," to laughs from the crowd. "That&apos;s not a crime, just wanted to make that point," he added.

Sanders, coming off a victory over Clinton in Wisconsin on Tuesday, tried to stick more to the issues after a fractious week in which he questioned Clinton&apos;s qualifications to be president.

He said it was "amusing" to see the Democratic front-runner join New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo this past week to celebrate a bill raising the state&apos;s minimum wage to $15, noting that she supports raising the federal minimum wage to only $12.

Clinton, who planned a Brooklyn campaign stop later in the day, does back Senate legislation that would give cities and states the ability to set a higher hourly threshold.

Wyoming Democrats were holding caucuses Saturday, with 14 of Wyoming&apos;s 18 convention delegates at stake.

On the Republican side, Trump holds a wide delegate lead nationally, but there seems to be a real chance no one will claim a majority of GOP delegates before the national convention in Cleveland in July.

In Colorado, where more than 3,000 people at the state convention were picking 13 delegates, Trump&apos;s organizers distributed a slate of names that listed incorrect information for three of his candidates.

---

Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Kathleen Ronayne in New York contributed to this report.

© 2016 The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Learn more about our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

Copyright ©2007 ... 

