

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Actor Tim Robbins has issued an apology to the people of Guam following a recent joke he made about the island at a Bernie Sanders rally in Wisconsin.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Actor and activist Tim Robbins is interviewed by the media at a Bernie Sanders campaign rally in downtown Green Bay, Wis.,  on April 4, 2016. (Photo: Evan Siegle, USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin)

Actor Tim Robbins has issued an apology to the people of Guam following a recent joke he made about the island at a Bernie Sanders rally in Wisconsin.

Guam Del. Madeleine Bordallo took Robbins’ joke — saying Hillary Clinton’s win of South Carolina in the Democratic primary was “about as significant as winning Guam” — as an offensive statement about island residents’ inability to participate in presidential elections.

Robbins said he was commenting on Guam’s size, not its people’s lack of full voting rights. Robbins made the controversial joke at an April 4 rally for Sanders, a Democratic presidential candidate.

Bordallo, who is seeking re-election, said she was disappointed that Guam’s lack of full voting rights has been reduced to a political punchline.

The actor later posted on Facebook that he "did not mean to disparage" Guam's residents, adding that "we would all be better off if everyone in Guam could actually vote in the presidential election."

Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., on Wednesday said at a U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing that it’s “absurd” that Americans in Guam and other U.S. territories are treated like “second-class citizens” because they’re not allowed to vote in presidential elections.

“Four million Americans live on American soil and can only participate in our democracy, but only if they leave home,” Warren said. “At their homes — on U.S. soil — all of their representation rights disappear,” Warren said.

