 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

The chief executives of Maryland’s two largest jurisdictions on Friday joined other top politicians and labor leaders to denounce one of two candidates running Maryland’s closely contested Democratic Senate primary race. 

During a call with reporters on Friday, two prominent African American Democrats — Montgomery County Executive Isiah Leggett and Prince George’s County Executive Rushern L. Baker III — emphasized their preference for Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), who is white, over U.S. Rep. Donna Edwards (D-Md.), who if elected, would become the first black female senator from the state.

“Diversity is important,” Baker said. “But what’s more important is [electing] people that get things done.”

Van Hollen’s decision to gather the congresswoman’s detractors to criticize her record is a sign of how heated the race has become, with less than three weeks until the April 26 primary. A Washington Post-University of Maryland poll this week shows a statistically insignificant lead for Edwards in a race that splits voters along racial lines.

 [Poll: Racial split defines Maryland’s Senate primary race] 

Edwards’s spokesman, Benjamin Gerdes, declined to comment on the criticism levied by his boss’s fellow Democrats, other than to say: “With the exception of his proposal to raise property taxes by 15 percent, Donna’s always enjoyed a productive relationship with County Executive Baker, and we’re sorry to see him stoop to personal attacks so close to an election.”

Baker called his adminsitration’s relationship with Edwards “non-existent,” and said she had shown a lack of leadership in early conversations with federal officials about the FBI headquarters moving to Prince George’s County. 

He recalled that early in his administration, he arranged meetings on Capitol Hill to review county priorities. A meeting with Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) ran late, into the time Baker had scheduled with Edwards and Van Hollen.

Both representatives had to leave their offices to vote on the House floor. But while Van Hollen later carved out a few minutes for the county executive, Edwards did not, Baker said. 

“Chris has been there,” said Baker, who is joined in backing Van Hollen by other senior Democrats from the county, including Sens. Joanne C. Benson, Ulysses Currie and Victor R. Ramirez.

“It’s become apparent that the people who know her best are not supporting her,” Baker said.

Leggett said he believes voters are still getting to know Van Hollen, whom he described as someone reluctant to boast about his accomplishments.

“Once they see and understand his record, those numbers will change,” Leggett said.

Former Maryland delegate Heather R. Mizeur (D) and representatives from two unions were also on the call. Ricarra Jones of the Service Employees International Union said Edwards betrayed labor organizers when she supported the “notoriously anti-union” Washington Adventist Hospital and its bid to relocate its facility a few miles from another hospital that is facing downsizing.

As a result, several of the union members lost jobs, Jones said.

Matt Biggs, of the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, said that when African American NASA workers brought Edwards allegations of racial bias in performance reviews, the congresswoman did nothing.

Edwards defended her office’s response to the NASA workers at a recent forum, saying she has been working on the issue and the group was simply dissatisfied with the result.

local

md-politics







Please provide a valid email address. 

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

local

md-politics







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

