 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

 Sixth in a series of profiles of candidates for the Democratic nomination in Maryland’s 8th Congressional District. 



Del. Ana Sol Gutiérrez says she’s made history with each step of her political career: First Hispanic elected to a Maryland school board when she won a seat on the Montgomery County Board of Education in 1990. First Latina elected to the Maryland General Assembly, in 2002.

The Chevy Chase Democrat ­faces her toughest challenge yet in her bid to become the first Salvadoran American elected to Congress — and the first Hispanic member of Maryland’s congressional delegation.

She is one of nine candidates running for the Democratic nomination to succeed Rep. Chris Van Hollen, who is running for the U.S. Senate. In a deeply blue district, the party nominee will be heavily favored to win the seat in November.

Gutiérrez is irked by the 8th District’s reputation as home to big-name politicos in the high-end Washington suburbs. That portrait, she says, omits the ­working-class people and 22,000 Latinos who live in some of the less tony parts of Montgomery County and whose lives she has championed in Annapolis.

“It’s time for us to look at the change and reflect it in who represents us,” said Gutiérrez, 74. “I really don’t think we need to keep electing white establishment candidates.”

 [In Montgomery, some high-earning candidates] 

While most of the candidates share Gutiérrez’s liberal positions, she distinguishes herself with her life story — coming to this country from El Salvador as the 5-year-old child of diplomats and pursuing the American Dream as an engineer and an official in the Transportation Department in the Clinton administration.

Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), who was arrested with her at a deportation protest outside the White House in 2010, has endorsed her bid for Congress. The two are not related.

She is well known and well liked in her state legislative district, which includes heavily Latino Wheaton. But that appeal will go only so far in the much larger — and less diverse — congressional district.

Gutiérrez has lagged in polls and campaign spending compared with the race’s three front-runners: state Sen. Jamie B. Raskin (Montgomery) and first-time candidates Kathleen Matthews and David Trone, each of whom has blanketed the district with ads and mailings in advance of the April 26 primary.

She says Matthews, a former Marriott executive and TV news anchor, and Trone, a wine retailer, are using cash to compensate for nonexistent voting records. In particular, she says Matthews doesn’t deserve the label of “woman candidate” in the race while Gutiérrez herself has fought for years for women’s causes in the State House.

“They haven’t done anything,” Gutiérrez said of those rivals.

 [Five things to know about Ana Sol Gutiérrez] 

In her 13 years in the House of Delegates, Gutiérrez has been an unabashed progressive and voice for immigrants, although not a major negotiator or driving force behind the successful passage of sweeping legislation. She has taken on Democratic leadership over redistricting maps she believed diluted the voting power of minorities and over driver’s licenses for immigrants living in the state illegally.

When the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, prompted federal officials to boost identification requirements for boarding airplanes and entering federal buildings, Gutiérrez made it a top priority to ensure that Maryland would continue providing driver’s licenses to undocumented immigrants living in the state.

She pushed for a legal opinion barring the state Motor Vehicle Administration from unilaterally cracking down. She then co-chaired a state task force that recommended allowing all undocumented immigrants to continue holding licenses.

In 2007, she says, she agreed to vote for a ballot referendum allowing casino-style gambling in the state in exchange for assurances from then-Gov. Martin O’Malley that he would protect immigrant access to driver’s licenses. But months later, O’Malley (D) announced that the state would require proof of legal residence to renew their cards.

“You gotta stick to what you believe,” Gutiérrez says is what she learned from that experience. “Even though politics is the art of negotiations, there are very strong lines in the sand that should not be crossed. It made me a stronger legislator.”

In the years-long battle that followed, she allied herself with immigration advocates and opposed some of her colleagues’ efforts as not going far enough to restore licenses for undocumented immigrants.

She wasn’t one of the lead authors of the 2013 state law that ultimately created a second-class license, but Casa de Maryland executive director Gustavo Torres credits Gutiérrez with helping win votes.

 [Maryland lawmakers approve new licenses for immigrants] 

“That has always been her role — to go beyond the good legislation and improve it in the best way she can,” said Torres, whose affiliated organization Casa in Action has endorsed Gutiérrez’s congressional bid.

Gutiérrez also voted for the law offering in-state tuition to students brought to the country illegally but was similarly disappointed by the hurdles it placed on students who want to qualify.

In Congress, she says she would advocate against entitlement cuts and for more funding to educate children from low-income families. She says she would fight to protect President Obama’s executive orders shielding millions of immigrants from deportation, while pursuing national immigration reform in a piecemeal rather than “big enchilada” approach.

 Next: Dan Bolling. 

Next: Dan Bolling.

Read earlier profiles in this series:

  Will Jawando: Former Obama aide has his own version of hope and change  

  Kathleen Matthews: Former anchor, executive looking for 3rd act  

  Jamie Raskin: The most liberal congressional candidate in a crowded field  

  Joel Rubin: Activist wants to take fight to Republicans in Congress  

  David Trone: Run for office is unfinished childhood business  



local

md-politics







Please provide a valid email address. 

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

local

md-politics







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

