

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Cruz team seeks to lower expectations in Trump's home state — and raise them for Trump.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Donald Trump and Ted Cruz (Photo: Joe Raedle, Getty Images)

Ted Cruz and company are playing the expectations game in New York — including the taunt that front-running businessman Donald Trump should withdraw from the Republican race if he can't crack 50% in his home state.

“If he doesn’t get over 50%, he should probably consider dropping out, like everyone else has when they don’t win their home state in a dramatic fashion,” Cruz campaign manager Jeff Roe told ABC News’ “Powerhouse Politics” podcast, presumably referring to Marco Rubio in Florida.

Roe quickly added that he doesn't expect Trump to follow his advice.

Polls give Trump just more than 50% ahead of the April 19 primary in New York, with Cruz mired in third place behind Ohio Gov. John Kasich.

Both Cruz and Kasich are hoping to keep Trump below 50% and to peel away some of the convention delegates available in the Empire State.

Also as part of the expectations game, Cruz and aides are downplaying their own prospects in New York.

Reports ABC News:



"Still, Roe said the campaign sees a path for Cruz to walk away with at least some delegates from the Empire State through a targeted strategy of focusing on so-called 'orphan districts' with low levels of GOP participation, where the campaign hopes the Texas senator may be able to sway the small number of active Republican voters.

“'Hopefully we’ll come out with a pretty good cut of the delegates there,' Roe said."

