
News


By Aaron Short and Mary Kay Linge








									April 9, 2016 | 4:44pm
											| Updated April 10, 2016 | 4:54am


Bernie Sanders won again Saturday — and still lost.

The Vermont senator took ­Wyoming by an impressive 12 percentage-point margin in statewide caucuses, beating Clinton 56-44 percent.

But under the Democratic party’s oddball delegate system, Sanders’ winning streak — he has won seven out of the past eight contests — counts for little.

In fact, despite his win, he splits the Wyoming’s 14 pledged delegates 7 to 7 under the caucus calculus.

Clinton, meanwhile, also gets the state’s four superdelegates — who already pledged their allegiance to her in January. So despite “losing,” she triumphs 11-7 in the delegate tally.

Of the 500 superdelegates who have announced whom they’re supporting, 469 say they’re for Clinton.

That makes Sanders’ win in the Cowboy State and in caucuses and primaries across the country little more than a morale boost — and maybe a cruel joke to his ­ardent young supporters.

Meanwhile, both candidates turned their attentions to New York’s April 19 primary, and its trove of 291 delegates.

In city appearances, Clinton shied away from a slice of Junior’s cheesecake and Brooklyn-born Sanders touted his borough bona fides.

“I hope that New York state will help lead this country into the political revolution,” the Vermont senator told a cheering crowd of 700 mostly Hispanic and black voters at the United Palace of Cultural Arts in Washington Heights.

The crowd booed when Sanders said that New York is “Secretary Clinton’s adopted home state.”

“That’s not a crime,” Sanders joked in response.

“So if we can win here, it opens the door to victory to the White House,” he said, saying that a high voter turnout on April 19, when New York’s 291 delegates will be allocated, could vault him past the front-runner. Current polling averages have Clinton in the lead in New York by 13 points.

“This primary is so critical,” Clinton said at an “organizing event” that drew about 250 supporters to Sunset Park, Brooklyn.

“We are two and a half million votes ahead [of Sanders], we are on the path to the nomination,” she said. “I need to win big in New York — the sooner I become the nominee, the sooner we can unify the Democratic Party and go after the Republicans full on.”

Actress Susan Sarandon introduced Sanders at a rally of 400 jumping, screaming voters in The Bronx, and actor Kal Penn spoke for him in Washington Heights and at a LaGuardia Community College event in Long Island City.

Midway through his speech there — which drew a rowdy crowd of more than 1,000 — Sanders’ wife, Jane, interrupted him to whisper that the senator had won the Wyoming caucuses.

“The Clinton campaign is getting very nervous because we won seven out of eight of the last contests,” Sanders told the crowd.

“Equality, hope, young hearts. He is for the people who are still dreaming, the young ones,” said Paco Lugovina, 77, of The Bronx.

Lugovina said he has donated $90 to the Sanders campaign in $10 and $15 increments.

The crowds chanted slogans like “We have Bernie Sanders’ back! We don’t need Super PACs!” and carried signs. One, waved by a 5-year-old girl, read: “I trust Bernie with my future.”

Kiara Mendez, 47, of Washington Heights, said Sanders’ speech “was beautiful. He says all the truth. We believe in him.”

At The Landing, an industrial-chic space in Brooklyn’s Industry City, Clinton boosters lined up two hours ahead of the event, while protesters outside the venue shouted angry slogans. “Sunset Park is not for sale.”

“Hillary is purposely trying to gentrify this community,” one opponent said. “This will take away jobs from minorities and colored people.”

“I like Hillary. She is experienced domestically and abroad,” said Joey Wasserman, who attended the Sunset Park event. “She is charismatic.”

“I am here because I am on the fence about Hillary Clinton,” said Brian, a graduate student. “I want to get her candor, her vision, and her voice about certain issues. I want to get a better sense of who she is.”

Earlier in the day, Clinton visited Junior’s in Brooklyn with Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and City Councilwoman Laurie Cumbo — without sampling the world-famous cheesecake.

“I learned early on not to eat in front of all of you,” she told reporters. “So I am sitting here just pining, pining for a bite.”

Additional reporting by Georgett Roberts and Elizabeth Rosner


Read Next




				Sanders sees path to White House with win in New York			



Read Next




				Sanders sees path to White House with win in New York			


Share Selection

39,262

21,415

17,559

© Copyright 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved

Post Digital Network


			© 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
							 |
TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY | YOUR AD CHOICES



							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						

Copy Link

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password.

