Published: Apr 12, 2016 7:46 p.m. ET

5 companies charged with misleading consumers

By

The Federal Trade Commission sounded a warning to consumer products companies that claim their goods are completely natural, after bringing charges Tuesday against five sellers of skin-care and hair-care products.

The agency, which enforces federal truth-in-advertising laws, said the five companies falsely promoted their shampoos, skin lotions or sunscreens as being “all natural” or “100% natural,” when the products contained some synthetic ingredients.

 Also read: Laundry detergent from Jessica Alba contains ingredient it pledged to avoid  

“Companies should take a lesson from these cases,” Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection said in a statement. She said products that claim to be all natural should have “no artificial ingredients or chemicals.”

The actions mark the first time the FTC has targeted the natural claims made by personal-care products, an industry that has proliferated in recent years. There are no guidelines or legal definitions of what constitutes “natural,” and many companies have taken to calling their products natural if some of their ingredients are derived from plant-based materials.

Four of the companies in the FTC’s complaints agreed to settle the charges and change their labels and advertising, or drop their all-natural claims on products including Rocky Mountain sunscreen, ShiKai shower gel, Eden BodyWorks shampoo and Beyond Coastal sunscreen. Some of the products contain ingredients such as dimethicone, a lubricating agent, and phenoxyethanol, a preservative that is also commonly found in cleaning products.

The commission is moving forward with a lawsuit against a fifth firm, California Naturel Inc. The Sausalito, Calif., company sells sunscreen labeled as “all natural” that the FTC said contains dimethicone. 

 An expanded version of this report appears on WSJ.com. 

Join the conversation

Copyright ©2016 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.


                By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service,
                Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
            


                Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use.
                Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data
                delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
                All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More
                information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday
                data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM)
                from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is
                at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.
            

