Advertisement

Advertisement

By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVISAPRIL 13, 2016


President Obama vowed early in his tenure to make science “cool” and decorated the Oval Office with patent models of groundbreaking American inventions.

But one of the most vivid indications of the passion Mr. Obama harbors for all things scientific and technological is the White House Science Fair, a tradition he began in 2010 and will host for the final time on Wednesday.

This year it is bittersweet for Mr. Obama, who will welcome alumni of science fairs past and announce programs that will carry his administration’s emphasis on science education into the future.

The White House announced Wednesday that Oracle, the computer technology company, would invest $200 million for computer science education for young Americans over the next 18 months, as part of Mr. Obama’s “C.S. for All” initiative. And the Department of Education will issue new guidelines to states and school districts on how they can use federal money to enhance science, technology, engineering and math — or STEM — education.

“I’m a big science guy,” Mr. Obama told the Science Channel in a brief video that aired on Monday, part of a week of roughly minute-long appearances he taped for the network to, as he put it, talk about “cool topics that are really important.”

Advertisement

For a day each year since Mr. Obama began the tradition, the ornate state floor of the White House is transformed into a veritable paradise of projects that resembles countless school and regional science fairs in far less glamorous locales, complete with poster-board displays of findings with graphics and diagrams, colorful models and young people eager to show off their creations.

Mr. Obama has gawked at a giant marshmallow cannon invented by a 14-year-old and has been charmed by 6-year-old Oklahoma Girl Scouts dressed in Superman capes who showed off their prototype for a mechanical page-turner constructed with Legos.

Last year, he invited Ahmed Mohamed, a Muslim high schooler from Texas who had been arrested after teachers mistook a clock he invented for a bomb. “Cool clock, Ahmed,” Mr. Obama said at the time from his newly minted Twitter account, @POTUS. “Want to bring it to the White House?”

Mr. Obama on Wednesday is bringing back Joey Hudy of marshmallow cannon fame and the Oklahoma Girl Scouts.

White House officials say the fairs have drawn some 450 students in kindergarten through 12th grade; this year’s is the largest, with 130 attendees.

It gives Mr. Obama a chance to showcase his commitment to STEM education, a push his advisers say has paid off during his term. There are 25,000 more students graduating in those fields than there were in 2009, when Mr. Obama took office, the White House said.

Through Mr. Obama’s Educate to Innovate program, he has spurred more than $1 billion in private investment for improving STEM education, officials said. The administration is more than halfway to the goal he set of training 100,000 STEM educators by 2020.

Mr. Obama has also incorporated innovation into his policy-making process and the way the White House communicates his message, building an Office of Digital Strategy to manage a suite of social media platforms and naming the first chief technology officer.

Advertisement

He started an initative in precision medicine to find ways of using Big Data and genomics to cure diseases and he has had money poured into clean energy research to combat climate change.

The president said recently that his favorite movie last year was “The Martian,” the feature film starring Matt Damon as an astronaut stranded on Mars who vows to, in the president’s words “science the heck out of this” until he figured out a way to return home.

“He didn’t say heck,” Mr. Obama noted in January, “but you get the point: that’s the American spirit.”

Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

Go to Home Page »

