Advertisement

Advertisement

Follow Us:

Get the Upshot in your Inbox




Nate Cohn



@Nate_Cohn

APRIL 13, 2016


Unless every poll is wildly wrong, Donald Trump is going to win in New York on Tuesday, and he’s going to win big. But exactly how he wins really matters. A few votes here or there could make the difference between a solid or shaky road to the Republican nomination.

New York’s 95 delegates would keep Mr. Trump on a narrow path to avoid a contested convention. But New York awards its delegates in a fairly unusual way: proportionally but with a 50 percent winner-take-all trigger for each district and for the pool of statewide delegates. So Mr. Trump would need 50 percent of the vote statewide and in each congressional district to win all of the delegates.

To win 50 percent of the vote statewide, he needs to run up the score in the relatively Republican areas where he’s expected to do well: Staten Island, Long Island and upstate New York.

But to maximize his delegate haul, he needs convincing wins in every congressional district — including in some of the most Democratic places in the country. Every pocket of weakness could cost him delegates.

If you don’t want to get too far into the details of New York, the easy thing to watch is whether Mr. Trump is winning 50 percent of the vote statewide. If he clears 50 percent, it means he gets all 14 of the statewide delegates; it would probably mean he would also clear 50 percent in many or most of the state’s 27 congressional districts. All things considered, if he went over 50 percent statewide, he would probably win at least 75 delegates.

Advertisement

Every recent survey shows Mr. Trump clearing 50 percent of the vote, with many of the most recent surveys even placing him in the mid-50s.

He is probably so strong in part because he has been a ubiquitous presence in New York for decades. But the state’s demographics also favor him; he would have a very real shot to get 50 percent of the vote in New York even with no home-state advantage.

Advertisement

New York isn’t quite perfect for him — even his strongest areas have average or above-average educational attainment. But it’s a lot like highly educated Massachusetts, which gave Mr. Trump 49 percent of the vote and has been his best state so far.

Mr. Trump fares best in places that look nothing like the old Republican Party. New Yorkers aren’t very religious, they have low marriage rates, and they’re less likely to work in the old resource-based economy. They are far more likely to be Catholic than Republicans nationwide. It’s the sort of place where a Republican from 1950 might look around and think that America needs to be made great again.

These strengths make Mr. Trump a favorite to clear 50 percent in congressional districts on Staten Island and Long Island, along with many districts in upstate New York, according to a demographic-based statistical model of Mr. Trump’s support. Over all, our model places Mr. Trump just short of 50 percent statewide; the model may underestimate him a bit because it doesn’t account for a home-state edge.

His best district might be New York’s 11th, which includes Staten Island and which has many voters of Italian ancestry. The model estimates he’ll receive 58 percent of the vote there.

It might seem strange to focus on something like Italian ancestry, but the number of voters with ancestry from predominantly Roman Catholic countries in Europe (like Italy, Ireland or Spain) is one of the strongest drivers of Mr. Trump’s support. Conversely, a high share of voters with ancestry from Protestant northwest Europe (like England, Germany or the Netherlands) has predicted lack of support. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Trump’s support in the area includes two prominent Catholic politicians, Rudy Giuliani and Chris Christie.

Mr. Trump might fare nearly as well in upstate New York, but here demographics alone suggest Mr. Trump might have a harder time reaching 50 percent.

Advertisement

This may be a bit surprising; Mr. Trump has received a lot of high-profile endorsements from upstate New York. One possibility is that his strength there is a little bit of an illusion: Mr. Trump’s supporters may make up a particularly large share of the population (since there are more Republicans upstate), but they might not represent quite as large a share of Republicans as they do in a more Democratic region like Long Island.

What’s clear is that these upstate districts — there are nine or so, depending on your definition of upstate — matter a lot. Not only does he need the extra delegates, but these districts also have large numbers of registered Republicans. He needs to win easily here to help secure 50 percent of the statewide vote.

To really win big, and claim nearly all of New York’s delegates, Mr. Trump won’t just need to clear 50 percent statewide with strong showings in upstate New York and Long Island; he’ll need to fare well closer to Manhattan, where his advantages rapidly fade.

His strength starts to tick downward in Westchester County and on the north side of Long Island, where white voters are better educated and where old-money enclaves start to eat into Mr. Trump’s biggest advantages.

The disadvantages grow even greater in New York City (outside Staten Island), where white voters are among the best educated in the country.

Mr. Trump’s biggest challenges are five well-educated congressional districts near or including Manhattan — the 9th, 10th, 7th, 12th and 13th Districts.

The 12th District’s white voters, which includes the Upper East Side, are the best educated in the country; the 13th, which includes most of Manhattan north of 96th Street (but not Columbia University), ranks fifth. Mr. Trump has tended to struggle in areas like these: He lost the affluent white wards on Chicago’s north side to John Kasich.

Indeed, the model estimates that Mr. Trump will lose several of these New York City districts to Mr. Kasich or perhaps Ted Cruz. Whether that happens matters a lot: New York City may not have many Republicans, but it has a lot of congressional districts. If it turns out that Mr. Trump is weak here, it could prevent him from getting much more than 80 delegates, even if he’s easily clearing 50 percent statewide.

Advertisement

But Mr. Trump could do better here than one would guess from the area’s demographics. These areas are heavily Democratic — it’s possible that the Republican voters in these areas are nothing like the overall population of white adults (the model uses census data for non-Hispanic whites, since Republican voters are overwhelmingly white).

For example, the large number of Republican Orthodox Jews in the otherwise heavily Democratic 8th, 9th, 10th and 12th Districts could easily vote very differently than one would guess from statistics on the broader population.

A different version of the same analytical challenge occurs in places where nonwhite voters represent a large share or even a majority of Republican voters.

The model, relying on data from white voters (who will still represent the majority of Republican voters in most of these districts), makes Mr. Trump a clear favorite in all of the districts where nonwhite voters represent a majority of adult citizens, except for New York’s 12th District — which includes the Upper East Side.

There’s reason to think Mr. Trump really is a favorite in these nonwhite areas. He carried all of the majority Hispanic wards in Chicago, including those with the smallest number of non-Hispanic whites.

He could likewise win the overwhelmingly nonwhite districts of New York. If so, just a handful of voters in some of the most heavily Democratic areas of the country could swing several delegates.

The result is an overall picture that’s quite uncertain, even as Mr. Trump is all but assured to win easily. In the worst case for him, he wins something like 48 or 49 percent of the vote (with strength in places like Long Island and Staten Island, but without clearing 50 percent in parts of upstate New York and with weakness in many New York City districts.) He would receive as few as 60 or so delegates.

Even if he clears 50 percent over all, a few pockets of weakness in heavily Democratic, well-educated or diverse stretches of New York City could cost him 15 delegates. There’s very little way to know whether he’ll win these delegates based on the polls because so few of the state’s Republican voters live in these areas.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

Go to Home Page »

