Advertisement

Advertisement

By JIM RUTENBERGAPRIL 13, 2016


One of the biggest feuds of the ribald political year may be heading toward a détente: The Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly and Donald Trump held a private meeting at Trump Tower on Wednesday to discuss their differences, which have provided a running subplot to this year’s election coverage.

The session was held at Ms. Kelly’s request, Fox News said in a statement. The network said the results of the meeting would be revealed on Ms. Kelly’s show on Wednesday night.

“Fox News Chairman and C.E.O. Roger Ailes has spoken to Donald Trump a few times over the past three months about appearing on a Fox Broadcasting special with Megyn Kelly airing on May 23,” the statement read. “Kelly requested a meeting with Mr. Trump, which took place at Trump Tower this morning.”

The statement also said, “Kelly has acknowledged in recent interviews that Trump is a fascinating person to cover and has electrified the Republican base.”

While Ms. Kelly sought the meeting, some of Mr. Trump’s advisers have counseled an easing of tensions with her and her network.

Advertisement

Mr. Trump is trying to reboot his message and approach and has brought on a seasoned political hand, Paul Manafort. Mr. Manafort has assumed a broader portfolio than his original assignment, convention manager, and has taken control of messaging and media, according to two people close to the campaign.

Ms. Kelly’s appearance at Trump Tower in Manhattan was first detected by MSNBC, whose senior editor, Beth Fouhy, wrote in a Twitter post, “Megyn Kelly just entered the Trump tower incognito, met by member of his team who took her upstairs.”

Mr. Trump, the leading Republican candidate for president, has leveled a barrage of criticism at Ms. Kelly since the first Republican debate in August, saying he thought she had treated him unfairly.

Ms. Kelly has refused to back down in the face of his criticism. But the situation was becoming arguably untenable for both: Ms. Kelly is one of the biggest stars in news, yet she has been in the position of covering the election year without access to the front-runner.

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.

Go to Home Page »

