

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

After being blamed for running Gov. Scott Walker's short-lived presidential campaign into the ground last year, GOP political operative Rick Wiley has now found a politician with deeper pockets. 

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Donald Trump confers with Scott Walker during a break  in the Republican debate on Aug. 6, 2015, in Cleveland. (Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images)

After being blamed for running Gov. Scott Walker's short-lived presidential campaign into the ground last year, GOP political operative Rick Wiley has now found a politician with deeper pockets.

Wiley — a former executive director of the Wisconsin Republican Party — will serve as national political director for GOP presidential front-runner Donald Trump. The appointment comes two days after Walker laughed off suggestions of being Trump's running mate.

“Rick is a seasoned political expert with a very successful career in winning elections," Trump said in a news release. "He brings decades of experience, and his deep ties to political leaders and activists across the country will be a tremendous asset as we enter the final phase of securing the nomination.”

Wiley did not return a call or text message on Wednesday.

But he said in the Trump release that voters are hungry for someone to shake up Washington: "Donald Trump has energized millions of hard working people across the country with his no-nonsense straight talk and will bring his record of success to tackle the real problems that face our nation.”

Last year, Wiley came under withering criticism from conservative bloggers, talk show hosts and publications after Walker shut down his campaign operation in September after just 71 days.

Most focused on how the campaign — under Wiley's leadership — burned through millions of dollars with a massive campaign staff and on Wiley' suggestions that it was tough preparing Walker for a presidential bid.

After Walker dropped out of the race, one national blogger said Wiley should "never, ever work in politics again." And the National Review said Wiley reminded everyone "why Republicans hate political consultants."

Reports showed Walker's campaign was still more than $1 million in the hole at the end of 2015. Earlier this week, Walker sent out a fundraising email offering campaign T-shirts to any supporter who gave $45 to help pay off his outstanding debt.

“I cannot stand to see them go to waste,” Walker said in the appeal.

USA TODAY

Trump VP picks: Thanks, but no thanks

