

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Some folks aren't ready to let a potential Ryan candidacy go, whether in seriousness or jest.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Speaker Paul Ryan gestures during a news conference at the Republican National Committee headquarters in Washington on April 12, 2016. (Photo: Mike Theiler, AFP/Getty Images)

After House Speaker Paul Ryan on Tuesday issued the latest denial that he would accept the Republican nomination for president, some folks on Twitter still weren’t letting the possibility go, whether in seriousness or jest.

This changes nothing. GOP would only turn to Ryan if convention was hopelessly deadlocked. That’s still the case—maybe more so than before.

Paul Ryan says the nominee has to be someone that got votes in the primary? Well, here’s Grafton County, N.H. pic.twitter.com/XpAIaC40YJ

“i …. want…. will accept… the nomination for our party.” - Paul Ryan

Ryan spokesman Brendan Buck even weighed in, to little avail.

If you still think this idea is alive, I don't really know what else to do for you. The tinfoil hat is a good look though.

This is exactly what Brendan would say if he were helping @speakerryan prepare a stealth presidential campaign. https://t.co/qRHugkYdlS

You're media. You give it a rest. Paul Ryan's lips contradict his own office's shadow campaigning YouTube channel. https://t.co/zfBV3Elyfw

*cleveland. deadlocked delegates are stumped. suddenly, crowd hears darius rucker in the background*"is that...is that paul ryan's music?"

Something tells us, this is not going away yet … at least maybe not until after the Republican convention in Cleveland in July.

USA TODAY

Paul Ryan: 'I do not want, nor will I accept' GOP presidential nomination

USA TODAY

Paul Ryan running out of ways to say he’s not a presidential candidate

