Tonight marks the world’s first armpit-smelling dating night. The amorous event is the innovative, and ever-so-fragrant, brain child of South London-based studio Bompas & Parr, a flavour-based experience design company who feels that its Romancing the Armpit soiree will bring about ‘love, happiness and hormones’.

In the age of the otherwise, completely sterile, online dating game - which Brits are actually playing pretty well, with one-in-five relationships having blossomed online - we like the scented incentive.  This is, say the event holders, “a small-scale revolt against a highly deodorized world and online-dating."

Going back to the real, touching, seeing is believing, basics sounds refreshing, but without deodorant? We’re not so sure.  Bompas & Parr so rightly says, “Your eye contact, humour, physical and emotional interactions during nose-to-pit engagements are set to reveal a lot,” that being said, just how much you want to give away about your gym session, self-tan quota and speed at which you ran for the taxi, is questionable.

In that vein, and yes, it's vain, we give you the seven wonders of the deodorant world, just in case you did want to wholly rely on your wit, charm and good looks (for more on that click here) rather than your natural waft.  And because we really do salute you Bompas & Parr, we’ve also included a perfume to boost one’s pheromones. Baby beauty steps, baby beauty steps.

Essential Woman Crystal Liquid Roll-On Deodorantfrom Live Native, £11.95, uses tea tree, colloidal silver and potassium for an anti-bacterial, and ever-so-natural, approach to keeping you fresh. There's also gentle notes of rose and frangipani to mask anything that a chemical-free blend cannot.

Natural For Her, Maximum Protection in Blossom, Herban Cowboy, £4.73, uses mineral salts to enable a pretty powerful natural alternative to chemical deodorant. It lasts 24 hours and also works to mask any existing whiffs if you need a top up en route to date night. 

Mitchum Deodorant, from £2.89, Boots. If this long-lasting power ball of a deodorant is good enough for the French Foreign Legion, it's good enough for any disasters a date-night might throw up.

Sanex Bio Response, from £1.89, from Boots, fights off any bacteria-induced pong (including that distinctive self-tan smokyness), rather than your skin's own natural scent, of which pheromones are a part, for an entire 24 hours.

Nivea Pearl & Beauty 48h Anti-Perspirant 35ml, £1.19, Boots. Tiny, but effective, this slips into your clutch bag, and in between awkward conversations, brilliantly. 

Dove Invisible Dry Roll-On Anti-Perspirant Deodorant, £2.20, Ocado. Because this version was created for women fed up with those white strips of powder left behind on their little black dresses. Oh, it also works well to protect your odour and skin, with a quarter of the content made up of moisturiser, too. 

Escentric Molecules Molecule 01, £66, liberty's.  Containing one single molecule, Iso E Super, this adapts its chemistry to smell different on all of us - just how a pheromone should.  The idea behind the woody, warm-skin fragrance was to create a feeling, and not a scent. While it doesn't actually create pheromones, despite the hype, what's interesting is that even though the smell starts to fade in the nose of the wearer (they call it 'fragrance fatigue') its creator, Geza Schoen, intended the aroma to stay fresh for everyone you come into contact with -  which in itself becomes an extremely seductive talking point. 

© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

