 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

At least 30 of the more than four dozen unpledged Republican delegates elected by Pennsylvania voters on Tuesday are poised to support the nomination of party front-runner Donald Trump, according to a Washington Post analysis of the results.

The unofficial total would expand Trump’s delegate lead over Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and Ohio Gov. John Kasich by even larger numbers — but a final tally from Pennsylvania cannot be known officially until delegates cast ballots at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland this July.

That’s because while Trump easily won the state and its 17 at-large delegates, 54 delegates — three from each of Pennsylvania’s 18 congressional districts — are officially unpledged, meaning they didn’t have to announce their pick before Primary Day and won’t have to until they cast a ballot at the convention.

But dozens of delegate candidates publicly stated in advance that they would support whoever won their congressional district or a preferred candidate.

 [In Pennsylvania, delegates may have the power to swing GOP presidential race ] 

Trump won every congressional district in the state, earning him at least 14 votes from delegates elected across the state who said they would vote for the winner of their district, according to The Post’s tally.

The group includes Lee Snover, a conservative Christian gun owner who owns a construction company in Bethlehem Township, Pa. Given her beliefs, she said, “My ideology is Ted Cruz. My reality is Donald Trump.” 

“It’s what my district voted, it’s what the state voted, and it’s what I believe,” she said.

In the months leading up to the primary, Trump and Cruz recruited supporters to run for delegate positions, in hopes of instantly securing more votes. Even if a delegate declared a preference, they are still allowed to switch sides. 

But at least 20 delegate candidates who say they support Trump won on Tuesday, according to tallies conducted by The Post and several Pennsylvania news organizations. The Trump campaign released a slate of officially endorsed delegate candidates, but the intentions of some people listed had been reported differently by news organizations.

Trump supporter Patrick Kerwin won a seat from the 15th Congressional District and said that the businessman is “the best possible candidate, I think he’ll make a great president.”

Wayne Buckwalter, an attorney from Downingtown, Pa., was the only Trump-declared supporter running for a delegate seat in the 6th Congressional District. His victory on Tuesday night fulfilled a childhood dream. 

In an interview last week, Buckwalter said he decided to run as a Trump supporter “so that people in my district would know that at least one of three would show up and vote that way.”

Meanwhile, Cruz supporters won at least two delegate seats with a third locked in a tight race in the state’s 6th Congressional District. The senator’s campaign had recruited 26 supporters to run — including his state director, who came up short.

The rest of Pennsylvania’s unbound delegates remain up for grabs, saying they will wait to meet with the candidates or prominent surrogates before making a final decision.

Speaking on “Fox and Friends” Tuesday morning, Trump said he has convinced a “substantial” number of those unbound delegates to vote for him. 

“I’ve got most of those delegates tied up,” he said. 

At his victory party in New York on Tuesday night, Trump said that unbound delegates have “a moral obligation” to support him given his big win. 

But several undecided delegates said they are in no rush — and some supporting Trump said they might change their minds if he fails to win the nomination on the first ballot. The three delegates elected from Pennsylvania’s 1st Congressional District, which encompasses most of Philadelphia, are a good example.

“I’m an urban rowhouse Republican,” said Christopher Vogler, 42, a business consultant from the Mayfair section of the city who won Tuesday night. “I’m not the stereotypical silver-spoon Republican — me and 55 other houses are on my block.”

Vogler said that he remains undecided and wants to speak with Cruz, Kasich and Trump about how they would fund Section 8 public housing and how they would stop Philadelphia from becoming a “sanctuary city” that refuses to help federal agencies apprehend undocumented immigrants. 

Seth Kaufer, 36, a gastroenterologist from South Philadelphia, and David Hackett, 47, a labor and employment attorney from suburban Delaware County, won on Tuesday and plan to vote for Trump given his commanding victory. 

But if the convention goes to multiple ballots, “There are too many variables to know what we face,” Hackett said. “My intention is to ensure that we have the most electable candidate.”

Kaufer said he has spoken with “prominent” surrogates for all three contenders. In a phone call with Heidi Cruz last week, Kaufer said he told the senator’s wife that “in a general election, you really need to tone down the rhetoric on the social issues and be mindful of the audience.”

“She agreed with me,” he said. 

politics















Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

