Advertisement

Advertisement

By MONICA DAVEY, JULIE BOSMAN and MITCH SMITHAPRIL 27, 2016


CHICAGO — J. Dennis Hastert, the former House speaker who rose from high school wrestling coach to become one of the most powerful leaders in the United States, admitted in court on Wednesday that he had molested members of his wrestling team, and he apologized for the harm that he caused them.

Mr. Hastert, in federal court for sentencing for a crime linked to the abuse, made his apology following the tearful statement by one of his victims, who described being sexually abused as he lay on a locker room training table decades ago.

“As a high school wrestler I looked up to Coach Hastert — he was a key figure in my life,” the man, Scott Cross, now a 53-year-old businessman in Chicago, told a judge. Stopping once to compose himself, he said, “I felt intense pain, shame and guilt.”

He said that he had gone years without speaking of what had happened, and that the experience had caused him lifelong trauma. “I’ve always felt that what Coach Hastert had done to me was my darkest secret,” he said, as Mr. Hastert had sat in a wheelchair nearby.

Mr. Cross, is the brother of a former Illinois House Republican leader, Tom Cross. The sentencing is presided over by a federal judge, Thomas M. Durkin, who is the brother of another prominent Republican lawmaker in Illinois, Jim Durkin.

Advertisement

Mr. Cross, who had been identified in court documents as Individual D, is one of at least four former wrestling team members who prosecutors say have described being molested by Mr. Hastert, 74.

Mr. Hastert, a Republican, made an unlikely rise from small town wrestling coach to become the speaker of the House. He has pleaded guilty to illegally structuring bank transactions as part of what prosecutors say was an effort to cover up a pattern of abuse against young members of his wrestling team.

Advertisement

The felony count to which Mr. Hastert pleaded guilty carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Mr. Hastert’s defense team has requested probation, citing his years of public service and his failing health as reasons not to send him to prison. In recent months, Mr. Hastert has suffered a stroke, a blood stream infection and a spinal infection — conditions his lawyers say have left him in need of round-the-clock care.

As part of a plea deal, prosecutors have said they would support a sentence of six months or less.

Mr. Hastert’s fall from genial retired House speaker and hometown celebrity on the far edge of Chicago’s western suburbs was sudden and steep.

For decades, both in Washington and in Yorkville, where Mr. Hastert had coached the local high school wrestling team to state championship, he had a reputation for appearing down-to-earth and steady — with little hint of scandal.

Mr. Hastert, who was first elected to Congress in 1986, found himself catapulted to speaker in 1999, in part, because he seemed to be a safe, agreeable option: The Republicans’ first choice, Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, stepped away from the post even before he took it, acknowledging adulterous affairs in his past.

Mr. Hastert grew up delivering feed for his family’s farm supply business, and held onto his plain-speaking style long after he left teaching and coaching for a life in the state legislature in Illinois and then in Washington, before he became a high-paid lobbyist. “I’ve always thought of myself as a kid from the cornfields,” Mr. Hastert wrote in his 2004 memoir, “Speaker: Lessons from Forty Years in Coaching and Politics.”

Mr. Hastert never appeared to shy away from the wrestling world he had built in the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s as a coach at Yorkville High School, continuing to advocate for the sport in Congress and to hire former student wrestlers as his aides and advisers.

Advertisement

Yet it was a former student wrestler, prosecutors say, who eventually would lead to Mr. Hastert’s downfall after a series of revelations that left many — even Mr. Hastert’s onetime assistant wrestling coach — stunned. Some wondered how the allegations could be kept secret in such a small town for so long.

Mr. Hastert was charged in May with lying to the F.B.I. and making cash withdrawals in a way designed to hide the fact that he was paying $3.5 million to a former wrestler for misconduct from years earlier. The former wrestler and family friend of Mr. Hastert, identified in documents as Individual A, told of abuse in a motel room during a wrestling camp trip when he was 14.

Prosecutors said Individual A approached Mr. Hastert to talk about the incident years later, in about 2010, asking Mr. Hastert whether there had been other victims and whether he would pay Individual A for what he had done.

After the payments began, federal authorities took notice of large, unexplained withdrawals Mr. Hastert was making from his bank. When told that large withdrawals had to be reported, Mr. Hastert began drawing smaller sums, prosecutors say, to avoid notice.

Federal investigators approached Mr. Hastert in late 2014, inquiring about the many withdrawals — he had paid Individual A some $1.7 million by then — and Mr. Hastert said he simply did not trust banks and was keeping the money in a safe place. Not long after, Mr. Hastert’s lawyer contacted officials with a different story, prosecutors say: Mr. Hastert was the victim of extortion by Individual A for false molestation accusations, the lawyer said.

But after recording conversations between Mr. Hastert and Individual A, the authorities concluded that there was no extortion. They found that Individual A had wanted to bring lawyers in to negotiate a formal settlement with Mr. Hastert, but that he had declined to involve anyone else.

Prosecutors say Individual A was not the only student molested. At least three other men — all former members of the team, as young as 14 — said they, too, had been abused. The acts included “touching of minors’ groin area and genitals or oral sex with a minor,” prosecutors said. One man, Stephen Reinboldt, told his sister, Jolene Burdge, of repeated incidents of abuse, all through high school; he died in 1995.

Mr. Hastert has not been charged with sexual abuse, and prosecutors said the reported incidents were beyond the statutes of limitation. Still, Mr. Hastert’s lawyers have said he was “deeply sorry and apologizes for his misconduct that occurred decades ago and the resulting harm he caused to others.”

Advertisement

In the case of at least Mr. Cross, the former wrestler who testified on Wednesday, Mr. Hastert’s lawyers had said he does not contest the allegations, but that “in all candor he has no current recollection of the episode.”

A long list of supporters — from Mr. Hastert’s wife Jean to Tom DeLay, the former House majority leader — sent letters of support for Mr. Hastert to Judge Durkin, who is the brother of a Republican state lawmaker in Illinois. “He doesn’t deserve what he is going through,” Mr. DeLay wrote.

Other supporters included wrestling coaches, lawyers, former students and former law enforcement officials. Mr. Hastert’s brother, Dave, wrote that he feared Mr. Hastert would fall into depression, given his circumstances and the physical ailments that have left him in a wheelchair. “If it were me, I’d be wheeling that chair to the highway, and waiting for a semi,” his brother wrote.

“By any measure, appearing before this court to receive its sentence will be the most difficult day in Mr. Hastert’s life,” his lawyers wrote in a memo to the judge. “Mr. Hastert’s fall from grace has been swift and devastating.”

Prosecutors have argued that a sentence for Mr. Hastert must balance Mr. Hastert’s years of public service with a need to “avoid a public perception that the powerful are treated differently than ordinary citizens when facing sentencing for a serious crime.”

Mr. Hastert’s history, the prosecutors have written, is “marred by stunning hypocrisy.”

“While the defendant achieved great success, reaping all the benefits that went with it,’ they wrote, “these boys struggled, and all are still struggling now with what defendant did to them.”

Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

Go to Home Page »

