This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/just-37-of-u-s-high-school-seniors-prepared-for-college-math-and-reading-test-shows-1461729661

Only 37% of American 12th-graders were academically prepared for college math and reading in 2015, a slight dip from two years earlier, according to test scores released Wednesday.

The National Assessment of Educational Progress, also known as the “Nation’s Report Card,” said that share was down from an estimated 39% in math and 38% in reading in 2013.

Educators and policy makers have long lamented that many seniors get diplomas even though they aren’t ready for college, careers or the military. Those who go to college often burn through financial aid or build debt while taking remedial classes that don’t earn credits toward a degree.

Bill Bushaw, executive director of the National Assessment Governing Board, which oversees the test, said the board was pleased that high school graduation rates were rising, but disappointed in the lack of progress in boosting students’ skills and knowledge.

“These numbers aren’t going the way we want,” he said. “We just have to redouble our efforts to prepare our students to close opportunity gaps.”

At the time of the assessment, 42% of the test-takers said they had been accepted into a four-year college. The test is taken by a representative sample of seniors nationwide.

The biggest problems came at the bottom, with growth in the share of students deemed “below basic” in their abilities. In math, 38% of students were in that group in 2015, compared with 35% two years earlier. In reading, 28% of students were “below basic,” compared with 25%.

Peggy Carr, acting commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics, which conducts the test, said officials couldn’t tie changes in scores to any particular education policies but demographic shifts may play a role. The dropout rate has improved for every racial and ethnic group, she said, so some struggling students who wouldn’t have taken the test in the past did so last year.

In reading, the average score of 287 out of 500 points was about flat from two years earlier, but down significantly from 292 in 1992, when the test was first given. Students who reported reading for fun every day or nearly that often tended to score higher.

In reading, “The students at the top of the distribution are going up and the students at the bottom of the distribution are going down,” said Ms. Carr.  “There is a widening of the gap between higher and lower-ability students.”

In reading, 49% of Asian students performed at or above proficiency last year. So did 46% of white students, 25% of Hispanic students and 17% of black students.

In math, the average score of 152 out of 300 points was one point lower than in 2013. A significant drop in math scores was seen among students whose parents didn’t finish high school.

“In math, the decline is real,” Ms. Carr said. “Students at the lower end are getting worse.”

English-language learners fared better than previously, she said, mostly because of gains among Asian students.

In math, 47% of Asian students performed at or above proficiency. So did 32% of white students, 12% of Hispanic students and 7% of black students.

Some educators have questioned whether seniors would do their best on a test that didn’t count toward graduation or college admission. Ms. Carr said motivation was hard to measure, but some indicators, such as the number of answers left blank, suggested the same level of student engagement as in previous years.

 Write to Leslie Brody at leslie.brody@wsj.com 

This is truly pathetic. 'College Level" reading skills isn't even a high bar. I tested at that level as a 6th grader in 1977.

This is truly pathetic. 'College Level" reading skills isn't even a high bar. I tested at that level as a 6th grader in 1977.

The level of math students are doing in high school today is deplorable. 12th graders today are learning basic algebra and geometry--the same stuff I was learning in 8th grade 40 years ago. No wonder kids aren't prepared for college. Also, when I went to college, the dumbest students ended up in education learning to become elementary and high school teachers. For the most part, these were the students who had flunked out of their first choice of a major, such as premed, prelaw, nursing, science, and engineering; in order to graduate from college, they ended up in education and became the tenured idiots now teaching our kids in high school. 

The level of math students are doing in high school today is deplorable. 12th graders today are learning basic algebra and geometry--the same stuff I was learning in 8th grade 40 years ago. No wonder kids aren't prepared for college. Also, when I went to college, the dumbest students ended up in education learning to become elementary and high school teachers. For the most part, these were the students who had flunked out of their first choice of a major, such as premed, prelaw, nursing, science, and engineering; in order to graduate from college, they ended up in education and became the tenured idiots now teaching our kids in high school. 

Undergrad is now the new high school and grad is now the new undergrad. 

Undergrad is now the new high school and grad is now the new undergrad. 

They just recently dumbed down the SAT; so snowflakes should be doing better on that one.  Soon they'll have to dumb down the NAEP to improve scores.  Many of the commenters hit the nail on the head -- there are so many problems with snowflake education that you don't know where to start to fix them.  Perhaps that's why we don't really try.  Truth told, the key to getting the best education for kids starts at home, and we have so many dysfunctional homes for children, for a host of reasons, that we'll likely never be able to improve snowflakes' educational outcomes.  But their self esteem is probably off the charts.

They just recently dumbed down the SAT; so snowflakes should be doing better on that one.  Soon they'll have to dumb down the NAEP to improve scores.  Many of the commenters hit the nail on the head -- there are so many problems with snowflake education that you don't know where to start to fix them.  Perhaps that's why we don't really try.  Truth told, the key to getting the best education for kids starts at home, and we have so many dysfunctional homes for children, for a host of reasons, that we'll likely never be able to improve snowflakes' educational outcomes.  But their self esteem is probably off the charts.

Not surprising but who do you blame? Teachers, students, parents, outdated curriculum, bureaucratic policies & procedures? Looks like we can't even teach to the test. The high school graduation rates are rising but most students aren't prepared for college. We move kids on from grade to grade and many shouldn't really be advancing to the next grade. More than 50% of freshman college students have to take remedial courses. Until we make public education a TOP priority in this country then we can expect to continue to see mediocre results and disparities both nationally and globally. Political rhetoric isn't going to fix the problem. 

Not surprising but who do you blame? Teachers, students, parents, outdated curriculum, bureaucratic policies & procedures? Looks like we can't even teach to the test. The high school graduation rates are rising but most students aren't prepared for college. We move kids on from grade to grade and many shouldn't really be advancing to the next grade. More than 50% of freshman college students have to take remedial courses. 



Until we make public education a TOP priority in this country then we can expect to continue to see mediocre results and disparities both nationally and globally. Political rhetoric isn't going to fix the problem. 

@Alan Gregory Based on the dollars spent it is a top priority. 

@Alan Gregory Based on the dollars spent it is a top priority. 

This, of course, is a reflection of the insolvent state of education created by liberals....for liberals.  Fixing education is very easy:eliminate tenureeliminate teachers unioneliminate dpt of education.Liberals are incapable of introspect and evaluating the efficacy of their policies.  80% of our problems in education would resolve themselves with the above simple changes.

This, of course, is a reflection of the insolvent state of education created by liberals....for liberals.  Fixing education is very easy:

eliminate tenure

eliminate teachers union

eliminate dpt of education.



Liberals are incapable of introspect and evaluating the efficacy of their policies.  80% of our problems in education would resolve themselves with the above simple changes.

@doug masnaghettiYeah, the problem is all with "liberals". Tell us Doug, how many elite liberal universities can you name? Now tell us how many elite conservative universities you can name.Think about it.

@doug masnaghetti

Yeah, the problem is all with "liberals". Tell us Doug, how many elite liberal universities can you name? Now tell us how many elite conservative universities you can name.

Think about it.

Ha ha ha.. the American education system.  So many issues, too many to list!  I really think voters should have to sit through a day in the life of an average school classroom and watch why we are failing.  Come to Nevada, worst in nation, tour a school...  you will see the future of this country.  I love how the kids start their day- a free breakfast of fruit cup, fruit juice, chocolate milk, cinnamon roll... watch them have their sugar crash by 9:30am. (Elementary school)  Again, let's start touring these schools and watch what a day looks like!

Ha ha ha.. the American education system.  So many issues, too many to list!  

I really think voters should have to sit through a day in the life of an average school classroom and watch why we are failing.  

Come to Nevada, worst in nation, tour a school...  you will see the future of this country.  I love how the kids start their day- a free breakfast of fruit cup, fruit juice, chocolate milk, cinnamon roll... watch them have their sugar crash by 9:30am. (Elementary school)  

Again, let's start touring these schools and watch what a day looks like!



Obviously we aren't spending enough money on education. More money will translate into better results! Sign me up!

Obviously we aren't spending enough money on education. More money will translate into better results! Sign me up!





All while we pay more on a per pupil basis than all the remainder of the world? Why? Because protecting teachers' unions are far more important than educating our youth. That's the truth.  How did we get here? By buying into the BS that protecting teachers' unions was the same thing as protecting our childrens' education.  How do we fix it?  It will take years but the best and most effective solution is to allow taxpayers a voucher to be spent at the school of their choice, including at the same public school they've been using all along. Why will this work? Because on average, parents care more about their child's education than do teachers.  The result is some public schools will rise up and protect their share of the education dollar by finding better methods to teaching our children while other private organizations will double down and compete for their share. 

All while we pay more on a per pupil basis than all the remainder of the world? Why? Because protecting teachers' unions are far more important than educating our youth. That's the truth.  How did we get here? By buying into the BS that protecting teachers' unions was the same thing as protecting our childrens' education.  How do we fix it?  It will take years but the best and most effective solution is to allow taxpayers a voucher to be spent at the school of their choice, including at the same public school they've been using all along. Why will this work? Because on average, parents care more about their child's education than do teachers.  The result is some public schools will rise up and protect their share of the education dollar by finding better methods to teaching our children while other private organizations will double down and compete for their share. 

@S.D. Duude FACT:  In many states the cost spent per pupil in public school is MORE than tuition at a very good private school.  That is very telling. 

@S.D. Duude FACT:  In many states the cost spent per pupil in public school is MORE than tuition at a very good private school.  That is very telling. 

 I'm not surprised based on what I've seen in one of our local high schools.  

 I'm not surprised based on what I've seen in one of our local high schools.  

If you wanted to change education put cameras in the class room and give parents the ability to see what their kid is doing. Within two years you would see some real grass roots uprising to change the system. One the trouble makers would all be isolated, two, teachers would have to teach

If you wanted to change education put cameras in the class room and give parents the ability to see what their kid is doing. Within two years you would see some real grass roots uprising to change the system. One the trouble makers would all be isolated, two, teachers would have to teach

Another year of spending more hiring administrators in State capitals, another year of lousy performance. Maybe we should give them even more money to hire more administrators. That'll fix it after the last 40 attempts failed.

Another year of spending more hiring administrators in State capitals, another year of lousy performance. Maybe we should give them even more money to hire more administrators. That'll fix it after the last 40 attempts failed.

Living proof,  teachers UNIONS represent teachers NOT the students !Nobody represents the students, all education curriculum and standards should be controlled locally with NON-UNIONIZED teachers that answer to parents and locally elected school boards. 

Living proof,  teachers UNIONS represent teachers NOT the students !



Nobody represents the students, all education curriculum and standards should be controlled locally with NON-UNIONIZED teachers that answer to parents and locally elected school boards. 

 Reading this article and harking back to my own personal days in high school, I am reminded of the Chris Rock bit on public schools in America.  Paraphrasing, he says that in every American classroom, sized 30 students, there are 5 "smart" ones, 5 "dumb" ones, and the rest are in the middle.  "That's what we are:  a nation in the middle,"  I can remember him repeating.The article fails to mention what college level math and reading entails.  Before I began university, I had taken an advanced placement calculus class at my high school senior year.  I did not do well enough on the exam, so I did not receive college credit and was forced to retake the course at university.  Was I considered "not prepared for college math" because I could not score a 4-5 on the advanced placement test?  Is algebra the new standard?

 Reading this article and harking back to my own personal days in high school, I am reminded of the Chris Rock bit on public schools in America.  Paraphrasing, he says that in every American classroom, sized 30 students, there are 5 "smart" ones, 5 "dumb" ones, and the rest are in the middle.  "That's what we are:  a nation in the middle,"  I can remember him repeating.



The article fails to mention what college level math and reading entails.  Before I began university, I had taken an advanced placement calculus class at my high school senior year.  I did not do well enough on the exam, so I did not receive college credit and was forced to retake the course at university.  Was I considered "not prepared for college math" because I could not score a 4-5 on the advanced placement test?  Is algebra the new standard?

@Andrew Poplaski You also might recall what he said books were to a certain subset of the population

@Andrew Poplaski You also might recall what he said books were to a certain subset of the population

This would be more informative, or perhaps prove MY point, if the results for the few private schools selected were compared to the results of the public schools results.  I checked and some "non-public" schools are selected, I presume this means private but it could be Charter for all they tell you.  My point is that public schools with their agenda set by the PC and far left crowd, lots of social engineering classes but not much emphasis on learning the basics.  Reading, writing and math.  But, those kids do graduate knowing all about Heather and her 2 mommies and how nice that is for Heather and how normal it is and that to make fun or her for her 2 mommies or 2 daddies is not nice.  They also learn that excelling in anything, showing off by getting straight A's for example, is just not nice.  Everyone is equal so that show off is just trying to be something different and that's bad. So, no wonder college now takes 5 years, it's one year of catching up included.

This would be more informative, or perhaps prove MY point, if the results for the few private schools selected were compared to the results of the public schools results.  I checked and some "non-public" schools are selected, I presume this means private but it could be Charter for all they tell you.  My point is that public schools with their agenda set by the PC and far left crowd, lots of social engineering classes but not much emphasis on learning the basics.  Reading, writing and math.  But, those kids do graduate knowing all about Heather and her 2 mommies and how nice that is for Heather and how normal it is and that to make fun or her for her 2 mommies or 2 daddies is not nice.  They also learn that excelling in anything, showing off by getting straight A's for example, is just not nice.  Everyone is equal so that show off is just trying to be something different and that's bad. So, no wonder college now takes 5 years, it's one year of catching up included.

@Barbara Wade  I stand with you on public vs. private schooling.  I also agree that the PC culture has steadily been creeping into the curriculums.  However, in my experience, students are not discouraged from excelling or striving for A's.  Do you have any examples of this happening?

@Barbara Wade  I stand with you on public vs. private schooling.  I also agree that the PC culture has steadily been creeping into the curriculums.  However, in my experience, students are not discouraged from excelling or striving for A's.  Do you have any examples of this happening?

@Andrew Poplaski @Barbara Wade Examples?  Only anecdotal, from a teacher in public school who told me, with the usual sneer of the left, that as far as she was concerned to her a C was just fine, no one was better than anyone else, some just tested better so she told her class that the C was as good as an A to her.  Or, I guess we could go into the reasons behind the new trend of having more than one Valedictorian at HS graduation ceremonies.  The schools who do this tell us, with a straight face, that it is so no one person is set out as better than all the others.http://www.nbcnews.com/health/were-all-no-1-21-valedictorians-too-many-6C10164648 https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/the-new-trend-in-validating-top-students-make-them-all-valedictorians/2015/07/12/d9a1ba76-2033-11e5-aeb9-a411a84c9d55_story.html 

@Andrew Poplaski @Barbara Wade Examples?  Only anecdotal, from a teacher in public school who told me, with the usual sneer of the left, that as far as she was concerned to her a C was just fine, no one was better than anyone else, some just tested better so she told her class that the C was as good as an A to her.  Or, I guess we could go into the reasons behind the new trend of having more than one Valedictorian at HS graduation ceremonies.  The schools who do this tell us, with a straight face, that it is so no one person is set out as better than all the others.



http://www.nbcnews.com/health/were-all-no-1-21-valedictorians-too-many-6C10164648 



https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/the-new-trend-in-validating-top-students-make-them-all-valedictorians/2015/07/12/d9a1ba76-2033-11e5-aeb9-a411a84c9d55_story.html 



It is much easier to enslave uneducated people than it is to enslave educated people. So, this is GOOD news to the Marxist zealots who rule us.  And still 95% of the people in this country send their children to these Marxist propaganda institutions.

It is much easier to enslave uneducated people than it is to enslave educated people. So, this is GOOD news to the Marxist zealots who rule us.  And still 95% of the people in this country send their children to these Marxist propaganda institutions.

@gaar thomas True, but in my state the number of children in either a Charter school, home schooled or in private school is almost equal to or higher than those in public school.  Parents have caught on. 

@gaar thomas True, but in my state the number of children in either a Charter school, home schooled or in private school is almost equal to or higher than those in public school.  Parents have caught on. 

@Barbara Wade @gaar thomas Although Charter Schools and Private Schools provide an improved environment in which to learn, I am just as interested in the subject matter the children are learning. I prefer home schooling, if possible, but, once again; what are they learning?

@Barbara Wade @gaar thomas Although Charter Schools and Private Schools provide an improved environment in which to learn, I am just as interested in the subject matter the children are learning. I prefer home schooling, if possible, but, once again; what are they learning?

@gaar thomas @Barbara Wade Interesting idea.  Home schooling, depending on the state, is sort of hit or miss.  Some states have a very rigorous set of standards to be met if you home school, others, not much at all.  Home schooling is also dependent on the intelligence level of the parent teaching the child and a whole host of other factors.  I could never have done it.  I am too impatient, I expect the lesson to be learned immediately and that is unreasonable.  In choosing private for our children, certain factors had to be taken into consideration.  We did our homework, talked to other parents etc. and made what we thought was the best choice for each of them.  It worked out quite well.  Again, now that we are doing the same for the grands, we again took in the child and the methods available.  While Montessori was not a good match for one of our children, it is the perfect match for our granddaughter!    The parent has to be aware of all factors. 

@gaar thomas @Barbara Wade Interesting idea.  Home schooling, depending on the state, is sort of hit or miss.  Some states have a very rigorous set of standards to be met if you home school, others, not much at all.  Home schooling is also dependent on the intelligence level of the parent teaching the child and a whole host of other factors.  I could never have done it.  I am too impatient, I expect the lesson to be learned immediately and that is unreasonable.  In choosing private for our children, certain factors had to be taken into consideration.  We did our homework, talked to other parents etc. and made what we thought was the best choice for each of them.  It worked out quite well.  Again, now that we are doing the same for the grands, we again took in the child and the methods available.  While Montessori was not a good match for one of our children, it is the perfect match for our granddaughter!    The parent has to be aware of all factors. 

 Who cares. We clearly have bigger issues than educating America's youth. Like which bathrooms we should be allowed to go to. 

 Who cares. We clearly have bigger issues than educating America's youth. Like which bathrooms we should be allowed to go to. 

Yeah but they do know how to put a condom on a banana!

Yeah but they do know how to put a condom on a banana!

"Only 37% of American 12th-graders were academically prepared for college math and reading in 2015"The other 63% want their college tuition for free. 

"Only 37% of American 12th-graders were academically prepared for college math and reading in 2015"



The other 63% want their college tuition for free. 

It's no secret why this is happening.  Our public schools spend way too much time on non academic pursuits at the expense of the basics.  When they actually teach the basics they are are a mishmosh of PC History, Math intertwined with stories about immigrants and other religions and forget Reading anything done by any decent writer.  They all have to be reading stuff written by a black poet, a Muslim Jihadi, a South American Indian or some such.  Oh and of course there is the required sex education classes so you know how to put on a condom, who is gay and how to act when a transgendered student comes into the girls bathroom.  Need I say more.

It's no secret why this is happening.  Our public schools spend way too much time on non academic pursuits at the expense of the basics.  



When they actually teach the basics they are are a mishmosh of PC History, Math intertwined with stories about immigrants and other religions and forget Reading anything done by any decent writer.  They all have to be reading stuff written by a black poet, a Muslim Jihadi, a South American Indian or some such.  Oh and of course there is the required sex education classes so you know how to put on a condom, who is gay and how to act when a transgendered student comes into the girls bathroom.  Need I say more.

@Terry Wood Reading the few comments that actually got a place to comment (took me umteen reloads to finally get a dialog box!)it seems we all agree.  Public schools are a disaster and teach nothing but the PC junk so loved by the left.  This is what we get, kids not ready for college and those who do go are the whiners whining about "safe space" and all sorts of stuff rather than getting prepared for the real world.  

@Terry Wood Reading the few comments that actually got a place to comment (took me umteen reloads to finally get a dialog box!)it seems we all agree.  Public schools are a disaster and teach nothing but the PC junk so loved by the left.  This is what we get, kids not ready for college and those who do go are the whiners whining about "safe space" and all sorts of stuff rather than getting prepared for the real world.  

The US educational system is a disaster.The Dept of Ed needs to be eliminated, common core must be nuked and buried, charter schools must be expanded, all the Politically Correct classes must be eliminated, more vocational classes in: carpentry, plumbing, electronics, auto-repair, cooking, public-school unions need to be made illegal, etc.The best solution is to do away with public schools entirely and just let the private sector take over education.  Poor students could be given school vouchers.The US Federal government has ruined our education system....

The US educational system is a disaster.

The Dept of Ed needs to be eliminated, common core must be nuked and buried, charter schools must be expanded, all the Politically Correct classes must be eliminated, more vocational classes in: carpentry, plumbing, electronics, auto-repair, cooking, public-school unions need to be made illegal, etc.

The best solution is to do away with public schools entirely and just let the private sector take over education.  Poor students could be given school vouchers.

The US Federal government has ruined our education system....

@Steve Dekker Actually, common core should be mandatory.  At least it would offer the kids in public school a fighting chance at equal opportunity.  I looked at the test, my kids in private school would have aced it.  It just isn't that hard, unless you have not been correctly taught from grade 1.  My granddaughter in pre-school is already learning the 3-4 yr. old child's version of science.  She knows the solar system in order (heck I don't think I could even do that now!) and can recognize each planet and spell their names.  Name me one public pre-school that does more than try to teach the kids to share?

@Steve Dekker Actually, common core should be mandatory.  At least it would offer the kids in public school a fighting chance at equal opportunity.  I looked at the test, my kids in private school would have aced it.  It just isn't that hard, unless you have not been correctly taught from grade 1.  My granddaughter in pre-school is already learning the 3-4 yr. old child's version of science.  She knows the solar system in order (heck I don't think I could even do that now!) and can recognize each planet and spell their names.  Name me one public pre-school that does more than try to teach the kids to share?

You mean to tell me that all students are not prepared to attend college?  How will the college loan industry survive?  Where will the women's studies and Afro centric graduates come from.  How will these children manage to evolve without 4 extra years of frat parties?

You mean to tell me that all students are not prepared to attend college?  How will the college loan industry survive?  Where will the women's studies and Afro centric graduates come from.  How will these children manage to evolve without 4 extra years of frat parties?

Should be asking first, what percentage is college bound? Of those, what percent are prepared?That's the applicable stat. Gotta choose your numbers a little more carefully before you get hysterical in print. But then, you'd sell 27% fewer subscriptions...What percentage of college entrants know how to drop a transmission?

Should be asking first, what percentage is college bound? 



Of those, what percent are prepared?



That's the applicable stat. Gotta choose your numbers a little more carefully before you get hysterical in print. But then, you'd sell 27% fewer subscriptions...



What percentage of college entrants know how to drop a transmission?

@Adam Selene From the BLS website:"Recent High School Graduates and Dropouts

Of the 2.9 million youth age 16 to 24 who graduated from high school 
between January and October 2014, about 2.0 million (68.4 percent) were 
enrolled in college in October. The college enrollment rate of recent 
high school graduates in October 2014 was little different from the rate 
in October 2013 (65.9 percent). For 2014 graduates, the college enrollment 
rate was 72.7 percent for young women and 64.0 percent for young men. The 
college enrollment rate of Asians (86.1 percent) was higher than for 
recent black (70.9 percent), white (67.3 percent), and Hispanic (65.2 
percent) graduates. (See table 1.)"

@Adam Selene From the BLS website:



@Adam Selene That information is in the article.  Just read it. 

@Adam Selene That information is in the article.  Just read it. 

That's a national disgrace.

That's a national disgrace.

We need more tests to make sure that students can be prepared to take the test that measures whether they can handle college.

We need more tests to make sure that students can be prepared to take the test that measures whether they can handle college.

More testing is not the answer.  More time spent  teaching and learning would produce better results.

More testing is not the answer.  More time spent  teaching and learning would produce better results.

@James Couture We need better prepared teachers prepared to actually teach the basics and forget all the social engineering they do teach.  It is of no importance that they know about and understand what Gay is, why Heather has either 2 mommies or 2 daddies, what a transgender person is and how important they are to...................well important to something.  They do not need to know how to put a condom on a banana.  They do need general sex education.  They also need to know how to balance a check book, read ANY book and understand the big words or understand what a dictionary is for.  They need to have a general grasp of civics, science and higher math.  They need to be able to fill out a form correctly with all the words spelled correctly.  TESTING has been, for years, a valuable tool to make sure each child was meeting expectations or where they needed remedial help.  BEFORE graduation.  Only a lazy teacher teaches to the test.

@James Couture We need better prepared teachers prepared to actually teach the basics and forget all the social engineering they do teach.  It is of no importance that they know about and understand what Gay is, why Heather has either 2 mommies or 2 daddies, what a transgender person is and how important they are to...................well important to something.  They do not need to know how to put a condom on a banana.  They do need general sex education.  They also need to know how to balance a check book, read ANY book and understand the big words or understand what a dictionary is for.  They need to have a general grasp of civics, science and higher math.  They need to be able to fill out a form correctly with all the words spelled correctly.  TESTING has been, for years, a valuable tool to make sure each child was meeting expectations or where they needed remedial help.  BEFORE graduation.  Only a lazy teacher teaches to the test.

Alibaba Affiliate Gains Clout in China’s Financial System

The Art of Larry Gagosian’s Empire

A Sports Car Whittled Out of Wood

Fans Flock to ‘Full House’ House, and Neighbors Aren’t Laughing

Alphabet Harbors Plan to Build ‘Smart’ Cities

Malaysia’s 1MDB Defaults on Series of Bonds

Paul Reiser: Mad About a New York Childhood

Comcast in Talks to Buy DreamWorks Animation


Subscribe NowSign In


WSJ Membership

Customer Service

Tools & Features

Ads

More

Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

