 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

FOREIGN FIGHTERS BOUND FOR ISIS DROPS The Islamic State’s recruiting operation may be in trouble, as the Pentagon says the number of foreign fighters has dropped dramatically: From about 2,000 per month to about 200 per month, over the last year. That’s a 90 percent reduction – which officials say shows that ISIS is losing clout. The military credits much of that to destruction of ISIS infrastructure, which has led to militants serving without pay, and in some cases, even living without electricity.

  [Number of foreign fighters entering Iraq and Syria drops by 90 percent, Pentagon says]  

US ADOPTS ISRAELI TACTIC IN ISIS FIGHT It’s called “roof knocking,” and it’s a practice the Israeli military has used for years to warn civilians that they’re about to bomb a building moments before they actually do, the idea being that gives people a brief warning to evacuate before the bombs fall – though it oftentimes doesn’t work as planned. Reuters reports the United States is adopting the practice now in targeting the Islamic State, despite the controversy surrounding it. Israel used roof knocks during the Gaza war in 2014, but the United Nations argued that they don’t actually give civilians enough time to escape. In the latest reported use of the tactic by the United States on April 5, a woman was killed.

IS CHINA BUILDING MORE FAKE ISLANDS? There is evidence that China may be about to begin another round of building artificial islands in the South China Sea, as tensions rise in advance of a United Nations ruling on China’s territorial claims in the ocean area, which many expect may be unfavorable to China’s claims. The developments, if pursued, will raise the stakes of U.S. engagement in the region. The U.S. has a military presence on bases in the Philippines, which brought the complaint to the U.N. tribunal, and is starting joint patrols in the area.

  [Storm clouds gather over South China Sea ahead of key U.N. ruling]  

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

