The Latest: Kasich ad depicts him winning GOP nomination


         WASHINGTON        (AP) -- The Latest on the 2016 presidential campaign. (all times Eastern):

11:30 a.m.

A super PAC backing Ohio Gov. John Kasich is taking its case for his presidential nomination directly to delegates in an unusual web ad.

The 60-second spot entitled "Convention" features footage of confetti falling on Kasich that makes it appear as if he has already won the Republican nod. Kasich is third among three remaining contenders.

The spot reports the GOP nomination "goes to John Kasich!" A narrator reports delegates chose Kasich because they realized he was their best shot at winning against Hillary Clinton this fall.

New Day for America says the spot is part of "a multi-state digital delegate-targeting strategy" ahead of an anticipated contested convention. The ad was released Tuesday, before billionaire Donald Trump swept primaries in five more states.

---

11:00 a.m.

John Kasich is taking in stride the fact that he earned only five delegates in Tuesday&apos;s five primaries, highlighting that he did better that rival Ted Cruz.

Kasich took second in Maryland, Delaware, Rhode Island and Connecticut, while Cruz bested Kasich in his native state of Pennsylvania. Cruz gained three delegates. Trump, by contrast, gained 109.

Kasich&apos;s campaign says it "remains true" that only the Ohio governor can defeat Hillary Clinton in the general election.

Spokesman Chris Schrimpf says, "Like (Donald) Trump, Ted Cruz can&apos;t defeat Hillary Clinton."

The statement comes even as Kasich and Cruz have formed a fragile alliance aimed at depriving Trump of the 1,237 delegates needed to win the GOP nomination prior to the convention.

---

10:50 a.m.

Donald Trump&apos;s rivals are running out of chances to stop him from clinching the GOP nomination by the end of the primaries.

Trump won more than 90 percent of the delegates at stake in the five contests on Tuesday. If Trump wins the Indiana primary next week, he will have a majority of the delegates awarded so far.

That would put Trump on a firm path to win the nomination, giving him more room for error in upcoming contests in Nebraska, Oregon and Washington State.

With 954 delegates, Trump has 77 percent of the delegates needed to win the nomination.

The AP delegate count:

Trump: 954.

Ted Cruz: 562.

John Kasich: 153.

Needed to win: 1,237.

---

10:00 a.m.

Ted Cruz is trying to laugh off a basketball gaffe he made inside the gym made famous in the 1986 film "Hoosiers."

At the campaign stop on Tuesday night, Cruz called the hoop a "basketball ring."

Cruz on Wednesday joked that his high school basketball coach would have been horrified by what Cruz called a verbal "stumble."

Cruz says, "I think my campaign team, after I messed up the reference to &apos;Hoosiers,&apos; I think they wanted me to run laps."

Cruz has been ridiculed on social media for making the gaffe in basketball crazy Indiana. "Hoosiers" tells the story of an underdog high school basketball team that goes on to win the state championship.

---

9:55 a.m.

Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas says in Indiana that he will be making a "major announcement" on Wednesday afternoon amid speculation he will name a running mate even though he trails front-runner Donald Trump.

Cruz says outside an Indianapolis restaurant that Indiana will play a major role in the campaign for the Republican nomination.

He is declining to say what his announcement will be but his aides have identified a "short list" of possible vice presidential candidates. A spokeswoman for Carly Fiorina has confirmed that the former business executive is among those being considered.

Fiorina dropped out of the Republican primary earlier this year and endorsed Cruz.

Cruz cannot get the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch the GOP nomination but he&apos;s trying to prevent Trump from crossing the delegate threshold and push the Republican race to a contested convention.

---

9:30 a.m.

Hillary Clinton is 232 delegates shy of clinching the Democratic nomination, when including superdelegates.

After winning four of five states Tuesday, she netted dozens more delegates than Bernie Sanders.

She prevailed in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut and Delaware, while Sanders won Rhode Island.

For the night, Clinton won at least 204 delegates to Sanders&apos; 146.

Based on just primaries and caucuses to date, Clinton now has 1,632 delegates compared to 1,299 for Sanders.

When including superdelegates, or party officials who can back any candidate, Clinton&apos;s total is at 90 percent of the 2,383 needed to win.

She now has 2,151 delegates to Sanders&apos; 1,338, according to the AP count.

There are still many delegates from Tuesday to be allocated, pending final vote tallies.

---

9:20 a.m.

Bernie Sanders&apos; movement for a political revolution is reaching a crossroads even as he is vowing to campaign against Hillary Clinton through the June primaries.

The Vermont senator says after losses to Clinton in Tuesday&apos;s primaries in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and Connecticut that he will seek as many delegates as possible to "fight for a progressive party platform." He acknowledges in an interview with The Associated Press that he has a "very narrow path" to the nomination.

He says he will fight for every delegate and says in the interview that "if I do not win" he will bring delegates to the convention who will fight for a progressive agenda.

Sanders won the Rhode Island primary and now has more than 1,300 delegates though he significantly trails Clinton.

---

6:50 a.m.

Will the real Donald Trump stand up? The presidential candidate, fresh off five Republican primary victories in the Northeast, says the Trump that people see on any given day depends on the political circumstances in play at the time.

He&apos;s pushing back against suggestions that he should tone down his combative campaign style as he moves closer to clinching the GOP nomination.

In a phone-in interview Wednesday, the billionaire real estate mogul told CNN that "I may tone it down."  But he quickly added, "I may tone it up."

Trump, who reportedly has been urged to show a more presidential demeanor on the campaign stump, said, "You have to be flexible. I will determine when I see how other people punch back."

In the interview on CNN&apos;s "New Day," he showed no inclination to significantly alter the bombastic campaign style that has landed him within reach of the presidential nomination. "I&apos;m not changing," Trump told a news conference in Manhattan on Tuesday night.

6:40 a.m.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, buoyed by his clean sweep of Northeast primaries, is pushing forward with his charge that Democrat Hillary Clinton is "playing the woman card."

Trump tells CNN&apos;s "New Day" in a telephone interview Wednesday that "she does have the woman card" but said that "a lot of women don&apos;t like Hillary, despite the card."

Pressed on the issue, the billionaire real estate mogul said that Clinton, who won four of five primaries Tuesday and is closing in on the Democratic Party nomination, "is playing the woman card left and right."

He said in the interview that "she didn&apos;t play it" when she challenged Barack Obama for the party&apos;s nomination in 2008. But he added, "She&apos;s doing it more now. She&apos;ll be called on it."

© 2016 The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Learn more about our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

Copyright ©2007 ... 

