

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Was it an eye roll? Was it the side eye? Was she just tired of standing there so long?

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    In a front-runner's rout, Republican Donald Trump roared to victory Tuesday in five contests across the Northeast and confidently declared himself the GOP's "presumptive nominee." (April 26)
    AP

What was going through Mary Pat Christie's head as she stood behind Donald Trump during his victory speech? Twitter has a theory.

Christie, a Republican who is married to New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, briefly went viral Tuesday night after her reported reaction to Trump's claims that Hillary Clinton relies on the woman card.

Mary Pat Christie as Trump talks "woman's card." https://t.co/Q8KMysFCx4

What did Trump say? Basically, that the only thing she has going for her is "the women's card ... If Hillary Clinton were a man, I don't think she'd get 5% of the vote."

TV pundits and online observers have suggested Christie rolled her eyes behind Trump or gave a subtle side-eye in light of remarks widely considered sexist, coming from the Republican presidential front-runner. Some joked that, like her husband in March, she was being held hostage by the Trump campaign.

New Jersey 1st Lady Mary Pat Christie accidentally upstages husband's boss w/ epic eye roll. #TRUMP#WomansCardhttps://t.co/vcOGSjfDVP

If Mary Pat Christie files for divorce, I think the judge is just going to knowingly nod and shrug. https://t.co/R8k0U8bgZM

Mary Pat Christie --  https://t.co/eyAoC9xnqk

Donald Trump mocked Hillary Clinton. The look on Mary Pat Christie’s face suddenly changed. https://t.co/24v2M8hpCqpic.twitter.com/CVAbIPYja7

Was it an eye roll? Was it the side eye? Was she just tired of standing there so long? The world may never know, but talking heads on CNN agreed that Twitter might have been reading a bit too much into Christie's expressions. It wasn't necessarily a side eye at Trump, much less an eye roll, they said. And she could had anything on her mind when she made that face.

So which is it? The world may never know.

So about Mary Pat Christie's reaction to Trump's women comments: Was it the side eye or was it nothing? pic.twitter.com/g4t4v9axJO

