

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

The presidential race wasn't the only thing on the ballot Tuesday. 

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., speaks during a news conference earlier this month. (Photo: Brian Witte, AP)

Democratic Rep. Chris Van Hollen won a closely watched Senate primary Tuesday, defeating Rep. Donna Edwards in the race to succeed long-time Sen. Barbra Mikulski in Maryland.

Van Hollen entered the race more than a year ago, shortly after Mikulski, a 30-year veteran of the Senate, announced her retirement. First elected to the House in 2002, Van Hollen was considered an up-and-coming member of the House Democratic leadership.

He will be heavily favored to retain the seat for the Democrats in November.

The liberal Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which had endorsed Edwards, congratulated Van Hollen and said "both candidates promised to be protectors of Social Security, tough on Wall Street, and all around progressive senators. Maryland's Senate race reflects the national shift in the center of gravity that's taking place in the Democratic Party — with Democratic leaders competing to be bold on economic populism issues and carry the progressive mantle."

In the other closely watched Senate primary, Pennsylvania Democrats picked Katie McGinty, a former Clinton administration official and top aide to Gov. Tom Wolf, to challenge first-term Republican incumbent Sen. Pat Toomey in November. McGinty was the pick of the establishment wing of the party — President Obama endorsed her, while Vice President Biden campaigned for her — and the party spent heavily to help her defeat pugnacious former congressman Joe Sestak.

Toomey is considered a key target for Democrats in November seeking to regain control of the Senate.

