by Ian Hanchett3 May 20160

On Wednesday’s “CNN Tonight,” Journalist and author Carl Bernstein stated that there would be “very damaging” leaks from the investigation into Democratic presidential candidate former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email, and described her conduct as “what she did was an act of recklessness, and entitlement, that there’s no excuse for.”

Bernstein began by stating that in the general election “all bets are off,” including the usual GOP-Dem breakdown as an important factor, celebrity might be more important than ideology, and “TMZ, Drudge, new media, [are] going to have a huge role in this, much more than the usual, fact-based media.”

He further said that GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump’s campaign had expanded from a “nativist, almost neo-fascist campaign” to when where “there might be a kind of screw you vote, about Washington, about the process, that he could be the beneficiary of.” And that “a lot of Democrats around Hillary Clinton” that he had talked to were “very worried” about running against Trump, and that some “Republican regulars” who were part of the Stop Trump movement he talked to pegged Trump’s chances against Hillary at at least 25%.

Bernstein then said, “[T]he folks around Hillary, who are not the usual Clinton Kool Aid drinkers…they’re worried, they know that their candidate has performed awfully, and that [Democratic presidential candidate Senator] Bernie Sanders (I-VT) has drubbed her.”

He added, that while he doesn’t believe there will be an indictment, “I think there are going to be some leaks that are going to be very damaging to Hillary Clinton. Look, what she did was an act of recklessness, and entitlement, that there’s no excuse for. And she’s going to have to go up to the FBI, under oath, and explain why she did this. And it’ll be the first time that she’ll have to give a really straight explanation, and it’s not going to be pretty.”

Bernstein continued, “Donald Trump has an awful record in terms of truthfulness, in terms of his business, in terms of saying one thing and doing another.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett

Breitbart TV, 2016 Presidential Race, Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton Email, Hillary Clinton Email Scandal, Hillary Clinton server, Carl Bernstein

Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.

Send A Tip

Send A Tip

Copyright © 2016 Breitbart

SUBSCRIBE TO THE BREITBART NEWSLETTERSwitch to Full Site

Copyright © 2016 Breitbart







