As the first black president, Bill Clinton knows *every* black person likes fried chicken.

Why else, during a visit to Louisville, Kentucky, would he make an unannounced stop at Franco’s Home Cooking, and get behind the counter to serve food.

But it wasn’t just any food, and it wasn’t just any crowd.

As Saturday Morning Solutions, a weekly black radio show, reported, “Bill Clinton came to the hood in Louisville and LITERALLY served fried chicken to Black people.”

Bill Clinton came to the hood in Louisville and LITERALLY served fried chicken to Black people pic.twitter.com/6DoJVAPSB7

— Sat. Morn. Solutions (@SMSS4) May 3, 2016





Will Clark of WHAS tweeted another photo of Clinton serving food without a hairnet, gloves or an apron.

The Health Department would call that “first black president privilege.”

.@billclinton makes a surprise visit to Franco's on Dixie Highway before his rally. .@840WHAS #Louisville pic.twitter.com/LfZSUzN0IZ

— Will Clark (@WClark840WHAS) May 3, 2016



Last month, Hillary Clinton was accused of engaging in black stereotypes when she insisted to a trio of black radio hosts that she always carries hot sauce in her purse.

Hot Air reported April 19:

During an appearance on “The Breakfast Club,” a morning radio show on Urban/Hip Hop radio station Power 105.1 in New York, Hillary Clinton (D-NY)said she always carries hot sauce with her wherever she goes.

The radio hosts immediately responded with giggles and snorts of recognition. You see, the suggestion that she carries hot sauce in her purse was immediately recognized as the lowest form of pandering to the radio program’s African-American audience. …

One of the show’s co-host’s, Charlamagne Tha God said to her, “now listen, I want you to know that people are going to see this and say, ‘She’s pandering to black people,’”

Clinton’s response:  “Okay, is it working?”

The pandering is strong with this one.

Umm Fried chicken is delicious. 

“I ain’t no ways tired.”
–Hillary trying to sound like she’s frum da ‘hood.

A vote for Trump is a vote for the anti-Christ (aka “the beast”).
A vote for Hillary is a vote AGAINST the anti-Christ.

We are in the end times now. Trump has displayed all the characteristics of a megalomaniac, who might be willing to go so far as to declare himself to be God. The anti-Christ will be a leader of the world who declares himself to be God, and demand that everybody literally worship him, or face death. The US president is the leader of the US, and with the US being the most powerful country in the world is also in effect the leader of the world. The anti-Christ is going to be a US president, and Trump clearly has all the characteristics of a madman who’d go so far as to declare himself to be God.

I feel very strongly that Trump, if elected president, will be the anti-Christ, the beast referred to in the book of Revelation in the Bible.

Do NOT vote for trump, EVER! Vote for ANYBODY BUT TRUMP!

Actually I think the anti-Christ is Obama

that’s silly if for no other reason than when the anti-christ does come, the Lord isn’t going to send Hillary as our defender.

The things they get away with.

What happened to my pic? Try again.

What, no watermelon? Bubba gonna bub.

Nobody seems to see it but me. I feel like a preacher crying out for people to listen, but nobody will listen.

A vote for Trump is a vote for the anti-Christ (aka “the beast”).
A vote for Hillary is a vote AGAINST the anti-Christ.

We are in the end times now. Trump has displayed all the characteristics of a megalomaniac, who might be willing to go so far as to declare himself to be God. The anti-Christ will be a leader of the world who declares himself to be God, and demand that everybody literally worship him, or face death. The US president is the leader of the US, and with the US being the most powerful country in the world is also in effect the leader of the world. The anti-Christ is going to be a US president, and Trump clearly has all the characteristics of a madman who’d go so far as to declare himself to be God.

I feel very strongly that Trump, if elected president, will be the anti-Christ, the beast referred to in the book of Revelation in the Bible.

Do NOT vote for trump, EVER! Vote for ANYBODY BUT TRUMP!

You are a five-star, gold-plated, bona fide IDIOT.

You have clearly listened to Satan’s lies, and refuse to believe that which is obviously the truth. Your kind, who believes the lies of the Devil, will be the ones responsible for voting in the anti-Christ, because you ignore how obviously EVIL Trump is.

Ok, man, ok, you can stop foaming now. I hear idiot-rabies is treatable now…

Poor Hillary troll must have eaten too much hot sauce!

Now you know why nobody sees it but you. There is help for Schizophrenia but you have to want to get better.
Black Lies Matter
Liberal Lies Matter
Build the Wall
Deport Illegals and Liberals
Stop Immigration
Hillary For Prison 2016
TRUMP 2016

I’m not the one who’s a megalomaniac. Trump is.

Hillary’s reset button must have DEAD batteries … ROTFLMAO!

What does that mean?

You’re the one seeing things and from your posts I’m betting you hear things as well. Can you hear the Prison Door closing behind your chosen one? 

Trumps gonna crush your crooked old lady!

Sadly, you are right. The Bible prophesies that the beast will come to power, one way or another. Nothing I can do will stop that, but at least I can TRY to stop it. As a Christian, it is my job to TRY to stop the beast from coming to power. So I will do my Christian duty, and vote AGAINST Trump, by voting for Hillary.

And I hope many others will follow my lead on this. Vote for Hillary 2016! Trump NEVER!

If you support Bill and Hillary you’re NO Christian!

I don’t support them. However, I support Trump even less. Trump, if elected, I believe will be the beast mentioned in the book of Revelation in the Bible.

A good Christian who LIES?   ” Vote Hillary 2016!…” – Animedude5555
From your comment history!

I’m religious. If you think that makes me a nut, then that’s YOUR problem.

You’re a LIAR proven by YOUR comment history!

Give me an example.

If you support Bill and Hillary you’re NO Christian! – me
I don’t support them.  -YOU

Vote Hillary 2016!…” – Animedude5555      From YOUR comment history..

I support her because she’s AGAINST Trump. PERIOD! I don’t agree with her, but Trump is pure evil. I can vote for a bad person (Hillary) or vote for the person who’s clearly going to be the prophesied anti-Christ (Trump). It’s pretty obvious that it’s better for a Christian to vote for Hillary, than it is to vote for Trump.

Hillary is pure evil!

She’s incompetent, and a liar. However, she’s not the anti-Christ. Trump most likely is the anti-Christ.

Well now that you’re getting Biblical. The Bible prophesies that good will triumph over evil, that light will cast out darkness and TRUMP 2016 will roast Hillary For Prison 2016.
So it is written. 

The Bible prophesies that in the last days, Jesus will overthrow the anti-Christ and Satan who was controlling the anti-Christ. However, even though I won’t be able to stop the beast from coming to power, it is my duty as a Christian to make any and all effort to TRY to prevent him from coming to power. So as a Christian, I will vote for whoever is AGAINST Trump. Since Hillary is now the only person who will be against trump, I will support her, and vote for her. I don’t like her, but she’s better than the Trump, who’s the beast, who’s acting DIRECTLY on behalf of Satan himself.

Hillary is the ultimate megalomaniac!!!  Look how much money she leveraged her position as secretary of state for !!!   Look at her arrogant flouting of the law on handling classified material!   Look at her cynical blaming of a video for Benghazi, and how she managed to get the guy’s parole revoked just so the focus would be on him and not on her!  Look at how she slandered and berated all the women who accused Bill of raping them.

She’s also female. The Bible makes it very clear that the anti-Christ will be male. Hillary CANNOT be the anti-Christ, unless the prophesy of Revelation was wrong. And God’s prophesies are NEVER wrong.

You might want to recheck that bulge in his (Hillary) pantsuit.

It also refers to the whore of Babylon.

Neither Hillary nor Trump can be the antiChrist, because the antiChrist enters the Temple, which has not been rebuilt yet.

It could be rebuilt some time during Trump’s presidency. Trump could enter it before he leaves office. And then when he does so, he would commit the “abomination of desolation”, by claiming himself to be God. And from that point onward he would be the beast, the anti-Christ. And shortly after that, before election day on his 8th year in office, he would also issue an executive order that would do several things:
dissolve congress
dissolve the supreme court
suspend all elections indefinitely
give himself full dictatorial authority over all aspects of running the USA

As for the “whore of Babylon” argument you made, a whore is a woman who lives a sexually immoral life, committing many sexual sins. Hillary isn’t a literally whore (even if you wish to call her that as an insult). Her husband is much closer to qualifying, based on his immoralities, though he’s a man, so the word whore still couldn’t be used for him. I don’t know who the whore of Babalon is yet. I haven’t seen anybody in a high place of authority who seems to meet that description yet. Though it could refer to a celebrity in Hollywood (a LOT of women the movie and music industries fit this description). In that case, she wouldn’t be in a place of high authority, but rather very rich (another trait that this materialistic society tends to admire).

Hillary has a big fat beaver 

That my friend is so gross and disgusting. But also true.
Hillary For Prison 2016
TRUMP 2016

She named it Animedude.

Is that spanish for Hadadickaddedtome?

Hillary Milhous Clinton: A dishonest woman  who surrounds herself with dishonest people!

lets see carries hot sauce in bag IM IN NO WAYS TIRED IM ON CP TIME serving fried chicken demeaning from the party of tolerance, wonder where the watermelon?  that’s the real racist party, and they promised 40 acres and a mule never delivered, democrats, nothing but racists. wm j fullbright Clinton mentor klan member ROBERT BYRD no tolerance there.

Crooked Billy serves them fried chicken.  Crooked Hilary puts on the hot sauce, which she always carries in her purse.

AP- Bernie Sanders seen scrambling to find a watermelon patch.

Of all the things to fault him for, this isn’t one. This is just good common sense.

As Secretary of State Hillary Clinton fought against placing al Qaeda-linked militant group Boko Haram on the State Department’s official list of foreign terrorist organizations in 2011. Clinton was urged by several officials, including Justice Department official Lisa Monaco and Chief of U.S. Africa Command Gen. Carter Ham, to designate Boko Haram as a terrorist organization. Secretary of State John Lurch Kerry added Boko Haram to the State Department’s official list  in November 2013 following several church bombings and other terrorist acts. The most current terrorist act from Boko Haram is the kidnapping of over 250 Nigerian schoolgirls.

I wonder if these two news are related. knowing Bill’s behavior:

” [Bill Clinton ]Serves fried chicken to black people — literally… ”

“Cops: Woman reports finding semen in KFC chicken sandwiches…”

The only living person to have been impeached as President of the US and the left are willing to elect his wife?

HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA.

Andrew Johnson and Richard Nixon came close as well.

Go home Bill, it’s over.

#saveourchicken

#CHICKENLIVESMATTER

White trash craving the White House again!

Another unfair hit on Bill Clinton.  He was not serving chicken.  He was checking out the breasts, thighs and legs.

NEVER TRUMP!
ANYONE BUT TRUMP!

People search this TROLL’s comment history.  It’s a Hillary bot.

I’m not a bot. I’m human. And I am not so much in support of Hillary, as I am completely AGAINST Trump.

Your comment history says otherwise!

I just do not get how fried chicken relates to any given race. I like fried chicken and am white with a WASP last name. As much as I detest the clintons, this is a BS story.

Hillary was recently asked about Bill Clinton’s  trips to pedophile island… Her response: “What difference does It make now?”  

Trump 2016:  Real HOPE and CHANGE!

What the hell is wrong with that? I love fried chicken and I’m a white dude…

And they forget the southern Dems wanted segregation and also start the KKK

Hillary hasn’t had to drive herself or use a subway for 40 years or so, but she understands what it is like to be a blue collar worker. Right.

© The American Mirror 2016

