 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

PARTNERSHIP WITH RUSSIA FOR SYRIA. American and Russian military officials will sit in the same room, poring over the same intelligence reports to ensure that the next cease-fire in Syria holds, Secretary of State John F. Kerry said in announcing that a new truce for the bombarded region around Aleppo could be declared this week. Government airstrikes and shelling have terrorized much of the city, but an apparent rebel strike on a hospital in Aleppo has also horrified the local population.

  [U.S. and Russian officials will sit side by side to monitor Syria cease-fire]  

American and Russian officials hope that their new effort will mean more robust implementation of the cease-fire than in rounds past. Though the two countries have monitored previous efforts to end the fighting, they have done so only at a distance, from separate offices in separate countries. Bringing both together in the same room, officials hope, will lead to a quicker response to any violations. It is also a marked step for the United States and Russia, which have shied away from military coordination since Russia’s intervention in Ukraine two years ago.

COMBAT DEATHS IN IRAQ RISE AS FIGHT INTENSIFIES. The death of a Navy SEAL at the hands of Islamic State militants comes as the U.S. military is making a stronger push toward the front line in Iraq, where 4,087 U.S. troops — a number not previously reported — plus more on temporary rotations, have been working to shore up U.S. allies trying to push ISIS back closer toward Mosul.

  [Third U.S. combat death comes as American troops edge closer to the front lines in Iraq]  

The advances are happening at a particularly tenuous time for Iraq. A political crisis grips Baghdad, where U.S.-backed Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is facing a formidable challenge from political opponents, including supporters of Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr. Protesters have staged a sit-in at the parliament demanding reforms — and are promising more demonstrations.

  [Protesters leave Baghdad’s Green Zone a day after ransacking parliament]  

RARE CONGRESS IN NORTH KOREA. North Korea’s ruling party hasn’t met for a congress since 1980, long before current leader Kim Jong Un was born. But this sort of event, despite the pomp and circumstance leading up to it, is never simply for show. Party congresses in China and the former Soviet Union usually yielded major policy changes — such as the move to perestroika under Gorbachev. In North Korea, the last party congress was an occasion to present Kim’s father as the future leader. 

  [North Korea’s ruling party is readying for a rare congress]  

None of that seems to be on offer this time. But experts and analysts are trying to sniff at whatever tea leaves are available to guess at the outcome this time — and most believe it will have something to do with the economy.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

