
Metro


By Chris Perez








									May 4, 2016 | 1:49pm
												

The head of the Serbian Orthodox Church said Wednesday he finds it “strange” at best that four of the religion’s sanctuaries went up in flames on the same exact day.

“Anything can be suspected — including that the fires were started on purpose and were not accidental,” Patriarch Irinej told Belgrade-based weekly Nedeljnik, according to B92.

“It is strange that four of our (Orthodox Christian) churches burned at the same time on three different continents,” he said. “It’s all symptomatic. We still don’t know if it is some kind of warning, and what kind. And whether someone set them on fire in an organized way.”

Irinej added that the Serbian Orthodox Church, also known as SPC, was “unpleasantly surprised” that Serbia’s top officials failed to immediately contact them after the Cathedral of St. Sava in Manhattan was gutted by a four-alarm fire on Sunday, just hours after Easter services.

Churches in Russia and Australia also caught fire that day, but SPC wasn’t alerted to any of the blazes “until noon on Tuesday,” the patriarch said.

Worried that the incidents could all be connected, Serbian Consul in New York Mirjana Zivkovic on Wednesday said the Serbian Embassy in Washington has decided to reach out to the US State Department, asking for all results of the FDNY’s investigation to be reviewed by the consulate.

“We expect that to happen as soon as the investigation has been completed,” Zivkovic told Serbia’s state broadcaster RTS, according to B92.

Irinej also confirmed that officials in the Big Apple had been keeping him updated on the FDNY’s investigation — saying they still had not determined an official cause, even though they were homing in on a careless caretaker who may have failed to put out all the candles that were lit for Orthodox Easter.

“I have received reports from our embassy in New York that the cause of the fire is being investigated,” he said, adding that people shouldn’t “jump to conclusions” about who was responsible “before the truth has been determined.”

Many people in the Christian Orthodox community believe the blazes at St. Sava and in Russia and Australia may have been set in retaliation for Pope Francis’ recent decision to postpone the canonization of Croatian Cardinal Aloysius Stepinac, an infamous Nazi supporter.

Francis chose to stop the ceremony from happening last week after the Serbian Orthodox Church and Patriarch Irinej himself urged the pontiff to consider Stepinac’s notorious past.

Orthodox Christians ultimately fear that the churches may have all been set on fire by Stepinac supporters fuming over the pope’s decision.


Read Next




				School on lockdown after boy stabs kid on the way to class			



Read Next




				School on lockdown after boy stabs kid on the way to class			


Share Selection

23,258

6,090

5,904

2,283

2,050

© Copyright 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved

Post Digital Network


			© 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
							 |
TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY | YOUR AD CHOICES



							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						

Copy Link

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password.

