

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Hillary Clinton is ready for Donald Trump's dirty campaign style. 

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Hillary Clinton waves as she arrives at a campaign stop at Jackie O's Production Brewery and Tap Room in Athens, Ohio, on May 3, 2016. (Photo: Paul Sancya, AP)

Hillary Clinton is ready for Donald Trump's dirty campaign style.

When the former secretary of State was asked by CNN's Anderson Cooper on Wednesday whether she was ready for Trump’s unconventional campaign style — which often gets down to personal attacks — in a general election, she pointed to her years of experience in politics and said she was prepared and planned to stick to the issues.

"If he wants to go back to the playbook of the 1990s, if he wants to follow in the footsteps of those who have tried to knock me down and take me out of the political arena, I'm more than happy to have him do that," Clinton said.

"You're ready for that?" Cooper asked.

"Oh, please," Clinton responded. "This is to me is a classic case of a blustering, bullying guy."

Clinton also repeatedly called Trump a new nickname: loose cannon.

“I don’t think we can take a risk on a loose cannon like Donald Trump running our country,” Clinton said before rattling off a list of statements and positions Trump has that she disagrees with, including calling his stance on nuclear weapons “downright dangerous.”

“Loose cannons tend to misfire,” Clinton added.

And when she was asked whether she would be following Trump's example of being very accessible to the press Clinton ignored the question and instead used it to put pressure on the media to ask tougher questions of Trump.

“He did it and it worked for him and I think reporters now have a chance to ask some tougher questions,” Clinton said. “It’s not enough to call in and give somebody a platform … I think it’s time to get serious. The man is the presumptive nominee and, you know, being a loose cannon doesn’t protect him, I hope, from being asked the hard questions that he should have been asked during the whole primary process.”

