Advertisement



						The New York Times					
May 3, 2016
May 3, 2016 

Voters in Indiana headed to the polls on Tuesday. Maggie Haberman, Nate Cohn, Trip Gabriel and Thomas Kaplan of the Times analyzed the results in real time.

Key Takeaways This Evening

Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont rebounded on Tuesday to win the Democratic primary in Indiana, according to The Associated Press, providing a bright spot for his campaign even as Hillary Clinton sharpens her message for the general election.

The outcome will not significantly narrow Mr. Sanders’s delegate gap with Mrs. Clinton, but it does provide a lift for him during a difficult period. After a string of defeats, Mr. Sanders said last week that his campaign would lay off hundreds of staff members.

Mrs. Clinton holds a large enough lead in delegates that she is all but certain to claim the Democratic nomination. Indiana offered a test of whether she could win over some of the white working-class voters who have been drawn to Mr. Sanders.

Read more analysis:

By JONATHAN MARTIN and PATRICK HEALY

Mr. Trump’s commanding victory over Senator Ted Cruz clears his path to reach the required number of delegates on the last day of primary voting on June 7.

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas ended his presidential campaign on Tuesday night in Indiana, clearing Donald J. Trump’s path to the Republican nomination.

Ahead of Indiana’s Democratic primary results on Tuesday, Senator Bernie Sanders said he was winning the vote nationwide of those 45 and under, which is “exciting.”

Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton have a chance to tighten their grasp on the Republican and Democratic nominations with strong performances in Indiana. Here’s a look at where the candidates are on Tuesday: 

Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton are hoping that Tuesday’s primaries in Indiana put to rest any question of whether they will win their parties’ presidential nominations. For Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and the Stop Trump movement, the state, which had seemed winnable as recently as last week, is most likely the last opportunity to deny Mr. Trump the delegates he needs to avoid a contested convention in July.

But Indiana could also provide some insight into whether Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton will be able to win over the constituencies that have been most resistant to their candidacies.

Here are some of the questions that could be answered by Tuesday’s results in the Hoosier State.

Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday - Friday.

Advertisement

