

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Is John Kasich the Obi-Wan of the Republican party?

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

-- (Photo: John Kasich/Twitter)

It’s May 4, which means Star Wars fans with bad senses of humor will be saying “May the 4th be with you.”

But after Tuesday’s Indiana primary did all but crown Donald Trump as the Republican nominee, John Kasich’s campaign was punning on another Star Wars line: “Help us, John Kasich, you’re our only hope.”

Hours after posting the ad, reports indicated Kasich would end his presidential bid.

Our Only Hope#MayThe4thBeWithYou#StarWarsDayhttps://t.co/Bi2qNGw2oM

The new ad released Wednesday morning on Twitter parodies the Star Wars series’ iconic opening scroll, painting a future of a Democratic-controlled government of 2017 with Hillary Clinton as president, Nancy Pelosi as House Speaker and Elizabeth Warren as Supreme Court justice.

Tax hikes in the republic! Restrictions on the Second Amendment! Obamacare funding! And so on.

“But we have hope it can be different,” the opening concludes. It then cuts to clips of journalists citing studies that suggest Kasich would be the only Republican candidate capable of defeating Clinton in a general election.

Indeed, multiple polls have found Kasich fared  better than Donald Trump in a hypothetical head-to-head matchup against Hillary Clinton. Kasich was the only Republican to top Clinton in a March poll from Quinnipiac University, besting her by 8 points. Another poll that month from Monmouth University found the same thing, with Kasich beating Clinton by 6 points. Yet another Quinnipiac poll in April showed Kasich as the only Republican ahead of Clinton in the key swing state of Pennsylvania.

But, as it turned out, the Force was no longer with him.

USA TODAY

Yet another poll suggests Kasich is Republicans' best hope in November

