 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

House Speaker Paul D. Ryan on Tuesday downplayed expectations for a quick reconciliation with presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, saying it will “take more than a week” to unify the party.

Ryan spoke with the Wall Street Journal’s Gerald Seib in a conversation streamed live on Facebook — his first widely broadcast remarks since withholding his support for Trump on Thursday.

“It’s going to take more than a week just to repair and unify this party,” Ryan said. “If we just pretend we’re unified without actually unifying, then we’ll be at half-strength in the fall, and that won’t go well for us.”

Ryan and other top congressional Republicans are set to meet privately with Trump on Thursday when he visits Capitol Hill for the first time since clearing the presidential field.

Ryan declined to say what questions or demands he might have for Trump: “I think it’s better that we have more of a personal conversation.”

He spoke in broad terms about the need to bring the various wings of the party together in a way that is “inclusive,” “principled” and “actually appeals to independents and disaffected Democrats.”

“I think we’re capable of doing that,” he said. “The seeds are there. The question is, can we bring those seeds to harvest and bring it all together?”

But Ryan said the divides that emerged in the presidential primary race cannot be easily papered over: “We will [win the presidency] if we all, as conservatives, rally around principles and advance a common agenda,” he said. “I believe can do that, but we can’t fake it. We can’t pretend. We have to actually unify and do it.”

Asked why he declared last week that he was “just not ready” to endorse Trump, Ryan said “my gut” made the call. “Just being candid and honest.”

Ryan, perhaps Washington’s most outspoken elected advocate for tax reform, also declined to comment on Trump’s tax plan, which would slash government revenue by more than 20 percent.

“The last thing I’m going to do is to start litigating different policies,” he said. But he praised the inclusion of tax cuts: “It was good principle.”

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

