 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

IS ISIS LEADER DEAD? An important leader in the Islamic State’s operations in Iraq’s Anbar province was killed in an airstrike last week, Pentagon officials announced Monday. But it’s not the first time that the militant leader known as Abu Wahib has been reported dead during his long career in extremist circles, which spans al-Qaeda, a stint in an Iraqi prison, and mistaken reports he was killed in an airstrike earlier this year.

  [Notorious Islamic State leader killed in airstrike, Pentagon says]  

If he is dead, however, airstrikes will have taken out “one of the most colorful, and most brutal” ISIS commanders, according to The Washington Post. Wahib was a computer programmer known for a series of videos showing his fighting prowess — he had a preference for ninja-style costumes and moves — and showing him performing executions.

THE TROOPS LIKE TRUMP. And it’s not even a close call: According to a recent poll of service members, the troops like Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump over Democrat Hillary Clinton by a margin of more than 2 to 1. Military Times breaks down the poll in a report that also says about one in five members of the military would rather not vote in the November election if they have to pick between Trump and Clinton. More would turn out for Sen. Bernie Sanders if he were the Democratic nominee, the numbers show. How much this is expected to swing the election isn’t clear. The military makes up less than 1 percent of the U.S. population, but it won’t be surprising if Trump, who loves polls, mentions these numbers on the stump.

OBAMA TO MAKE HISTORY IN HIROSHIMA. President Obama will be the first sitting U.S. president to visit the site of the world’s first atomic bombing when he heads to Hiroshima later this month, a planned stop on a trip to Japan to attend the G7 summit. Aides were quick to add that the president won’t be making a formal apology for the decision to use the atom bomb at the end of the Second World War — the expediency and necessity of which has been hotly debated ever since.

  [Obama to make historic visit to Hiroshima]  

But the gesture in itself is symbolic enough to prompt an early backlash from conservative voices, while supporters see it as a step toward fulfilling the president’s greater disarmament goals. The president’s agenda also stands in contrast to opinions espoused by presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, who has recommended that Japan and South Korea develop nuclear weapons programs to face off against North Korea.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

