

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

“Little Marco” doesn’t want to be second-in-command.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., and Donald Trump take part in a GOP presidential debate at the University of Miami in March. (Photo: Wilfredo Lee, AP)

“Little Marco” doesn’t want to be second-in-command.

Marco Rubio, a former 2016 GOP candidate, said in a statement on his Facebook page that he doesn’t want to be vice president.



"While Republican voters have chosen Donald Trump as the presumptive GOP nominee, my previously stated reservations about his campaign and concerns with many of his policies remain unchanged. He will be best served by a running mate and by surrogates who fully embrace his campaign. As such, I have never sought, will not seek and do not want to be considered for Vice President. Instead, I will focus my attention on representing the people of Florida, retaining a conservative majority in the Senate and electing principled conservatives across the country."

The Florida senator's announcement comes after Trump praised Rubio and left the door open to a shared ticket last week in an interview with Fox News’ Bret Baier.

“We’ve had really nice conversations, not necessarily about that,” Trump said, referring to Rubio being his vice president. “We always had a very good relationship, Bret, Marco and I, and then it got a little bit nasty for a period of time.”

Things seemed to get more than “a little bit nasty” between the two candidates earlier this year. Rubio made fun of Trump’s hand size and implying he wet his pants, while Trump repeatedly referred to Rubio as “little Marco” and made fun of how much sweat he produced, among other jabs.

Rubio exited the GOP race after losing his home state of Florida to Trump.

