 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

NOTHING THERE? “The State Department can find no emails to or from a former Hillary Clinton aide who worked for the agency and also managed Clinton’s private computer server while she served as secretary of state, the government told a Republican Party group in a court filing made public Monday,” according to the Associated Press. “The agency insisted later that some messages to and from the ex-aide were recovered and turned over in other inquiries. The government’s revelation in U.S. District Court in Washington came in answer to a lawsuit by the Republican National Committee.” Read more here.

ABOUT THOSE SECURITY UPDATES: “The Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission announced that they are teaming up for an inquiry into how security updates to smartphones and other mobile devices are released in the United States,” TechCrunch reports. “One of the inquiry’s main concerns is the amount of time it takes for security fixes to be released to users … The FCC and FTC have sent letters to mobile carriers and eight mobile device manufacturers to ask them how they screen and release security updates for mobile devices.” Read more here.

FACEBOOK DENIES ACCUSATION: “Is Facebook, one of the world’s most powerful distributors of news on the Internet, censoring politically conservative articles? Facebook denies it, but that’s the allegation in a published report that set off a firestorm among conservative media on Monday,” USA Today reports. “According to tech news outlet Gizmodo, a former Facebook news curator says popular articles from politically conservative outlets on conservative subjects were deliberately left off of the ‘trending news’ sidebar. … Facebook denied the report, saying it has ‘rigorous guidelines’ to ensure political neutrality in the distribution of news to its 1.6 billion users around the globe.” Read more here.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

