 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 SAO PAULO, Brazil — As she desperately fights off impeachment, President Dilma Rousseff sometimes compares her removal to the military overthrow of a labor-friendly government in 1964. 

Rousseff has personal reasons for this: She suffered brutal torture in that period for her role in a Marxist guerrilla group. But, as she faces the more prosaic accusation that she broke budget rules, she also seeks to rally her party’s left-wing base, casting the current dispute as the latest chapter in a perennial battle between elites and workers.

Rousseff’s recourse to the dark history of military rule might seem odd in today’s Brazil, a modern democracy where the armed forces keep their distance from politics. And while legal experts disagree on the technical grounds for impeachment, her narrative has fallen flat with the majority of Brazilians who, outraged by a wide-reaching corruption scandal and a deep economic recession, want her out.

 [How Brazil, the darling of the developing world, came undone] 

The lower house has already approved impeachment. After the acting speaker attempted to annul that vote for procedural reasons, and then revoked his own annulment, the Senate is expected to vote Wednesday to open hearings on her removal.

When Rousseff and her supporters speak of a coup, it reflects the unresolved legacy of a two-decade military dictatorship whose crimes were never punished. But according to her critics, it also points to her self-image as the tragic hero in a lifelong struggle to lift up the common citizen — and serves to put off self-criticism.

“In her mind, the Berlin Wall still hasn’t fallen,” said Fernando Gabeira, a former Workers’ Party congressman who belonged to a guerrilla group that kidnapped the American ambassador in 1969. “The idea is that her defeat owes to the evil of her adversaries, not any error of her own.”

Like her predecessor, Workers’ Party co-founder Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, Rousseff is one of a generation of politicians proud of resisting the dictatorship. During her 2014 run for reelection, campaign videos showed an iconic photo of her sitting grimly before a military tribunal in 1970, with the caption “Brave Heart.”

At the time the picture was taken, she had already undergone beatings and electric shocks, sometimes hanging by her elbows and knees from a horizontal pole known as the parrot’s perch. She would leave prison three years later. She began her career in government during the democratic transition of the 1980s, and after becoming president in 2011, she started Brazil’s first-ever truth commission to investigate the crimes of those years.

To avoid alienating a heavily conservative political class, however, Rousseff never undermined the broad 1979 amnesty that protects human rights violators from prosecution. Ironically, the Workers’ Party made alliances with some of the same politicians who once collaborated with the military regime. And construction firms that became major players under the generals would, under Lula and Rousseff, form the heart of a scheme to skim billions in bribes from the state oil company.

 [Kickbacks and dirty deals: The corruption scandals plaguing Latin America] 

Rousseff has not been directly implicated in that kickback scandal, but as it deepened last year, she turned her biography to an unusual new purpose: defending against corruption allegations. Asked about the plea bargain of a construction tycoon who testified about funneling bribes to her reelection campaign, she said, “I don’t respect informants. Partly because I was held prisoner during the dictatorship and I know what that is.”

Rousseff’s accusations of coup-mongering can seem abstract to the average Brazilian facing a spike in inflation and unemployment. In this largely low-income country, half the population is younger than 30, and most of the rest stayed on the sidelines of the ideological battles of the last century.

Within the Workers’ Party, though, her removal is seen as a coup in part because it involves some of the same players that rallied for the removal of President João Goulart in 1964. The most prominent among them is Globo, now Brazil’s largest media conglomerate, which celebrated the military takeover in a front-page newspaper editorial and enthusiastically promoted the regime on its TV network.

 [Impeachment in Brazil: A brief guide to a big political mess] 

Globo has since apologized, but many now accuse it of cheerleading for Rousseff’s ouster with a relentless focus on Workers’ Party corruption and editorials that seem to endorse impeachment. Last month, during a ceremony at the presidential palace in Brasilia, supporters of Rousseff pumped their fists in the air and chanted, “The people aren’t stupid, down with Globo TV!”

It is tricky to separate Globo’s political leanings from a journalistic focus on high-level malfeasance. Responding to critics recently, one of its late founder’s billionaire heirs, João Roberto Marinho, said the organization was simply reporting the facts of the massive scandal.

“To blame the press for the current Brazilian crisis is to repeat the ancient mistake of blaming the messenger for the message,” Marinho wrote in a letter to the Guardian.

Rousseff’s supporters are not alone in seeing the current dispute through the prism of the years of military rule. Some on the right praise her impeachment as a repeat of the military’s triumph against the left five decades ago.

When the lower house of Congress decided to open impeachment proceedings last month, a soldier-turned-lawmaker named Jair Bolsonaro declared, “They lost in 1964; now they have lost in 2016.” He went so far as to dedicate his vote for impeachment to the late Col. Carlos Alberto Brilhante Ustra, who oversaw the torture and disappearance of dozens of Rousseff’s fellow rebels.

In an interview, Bolsonaro explained his homage by saying that the ends — saving Brazil from communism — justified the means. Even though Rousseff and Lula ran largely business-friendly administrations, he thinks the president still hopes to pick up where she left off as a guerrilla in the 1960s and turn Brazil into Cuba. As proof, he points to a foreign policy friendly to socialist Venezuela and modest efforts to redistribute land and promote gay rights.

“They don’t respect private property, and they don’t respect family values,” he said. “It’s all the same story.”

As a probable presidential candidate who has lately gained in polls for the 2018 race, Bolsonaro is a testament to the disputed legacy of the old regime. Since last year, a small but vocal contingent at anti-government protests has even called for a fresh coup, blaring its message from sound trucks adorned with signs that warn of a creeping communist takeover.

They see the dictatorship as a time of “order and progress,” as Bolsonaro puts it, citing the motto on the Brazilian flag. And indeed, the generals oversaw several years of blistering economic growth. It is also popular to imagine that politicians then were less corrupt — a belief that Maria Rita Kehl, a psychologist who served on Rousseff’s truth commission, chalks up to “historical ignorance” based on the lack of a free press or independent judiciary at the time.

In this contest over the meaning of those years, what is perhaps most surprising is that much of the left appears to harbor its own longing for the years of the dictatorship. According to Maurício Santoro, a political scientist at Rio de Janeiro State University, it’s a worldview that enables Rousseff and her supporters to avoid examining their own mistakes.

“They have a certain nostalgia for a time when it was very easy to see what was good and what was bad,” Santoro said. “If it’s a ‘coup,’ that means they’re pure and innocent, and it’s just a corrupt elite removing them from power.”

 Read more 

 How Brazil’s ruling Workers’ Party lost the workers 

How Brazil’s impeachment process works

 Five reasons why the world needs Brazil to pull through its political crisis 

 Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world 

world

the_americas













Please provide a valid email address. 

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

world

the_americas







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

