 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

The young couple’s day wound down like any other ordinary Monday — the men took their dog for an afternoon trip to the vet, followed by dinner and wine in a London flat. 

But about midnight in January, 18-year-old Miguel Jimenez decided he wanted something a little more exotic. He invited his boyfriend, an up-and-coming lawyer named Henry Hendron, then 34, to take GHB. Recreational users ingest GHB, a depressant and psychoactive drug, to heighten arousal and spark feelings of euphoria. A controlled substance in Britain and the United States, it is sometimes found at raves — and, more recently, in the small but controversial “chemsex” subculture of London, New York City and other urban areas.

Hendron declined the drug, saying he had work the next day. Jimenez took it anyway. “It was quite a nice experience and we went to sleep,” Hendron told the BBC in April. “I woke up and he was dead, next to me.”

Celebrity barrister spared jail for supplying 'chemsex' d… https://t.co/dm3cBjpYo4 via @telegraph #photography pic.twitter.com/f58bfHT52a

— #ThePhotoHour (@ThePhotoHour) May 10, 2016



After phoning for help, the lawyer tried in vain to resuscitate Jimenez. “At one point blood starts to trickle out of his mouth, and I’m thinking, ‘he must be alive.’ But he’s not,” Hendron told CNN in an interview. “I’ve broken his ribs or something, and moving that blood around.” When combined with alcohol, GHB can be fatal, slowing breathing or inducing comas. 

When police arrived at Hendron’s apartment with the paramedics, the officers arrested the lawyer. Hendron pleaded guilty in March, for possession with intent to sell GHB and a stimulant, mephedrone.  

The use of such drugs is a central aspect of the chemsex scene. In November, the BMJ medical journal published an editorial warning that chemsex “needs to become a public health priority.” Chemsex, as they define it, is typically practiced by men who have sex with men while intoxicated, high on chemical cocktails of mephedrone, GHB, methamphetamine or other mind-altering substances. 

  [Doctors fear drug-fueled orgies with ‘an average of five partners’]  

Mephedrone, also known as “meow meow,” is a synthetic stimulant derived from khat, an African herb. As GHB use appears to be spiking in popularity in the United States, mephedrone is accruing new users in the United Kingdom. Although chemists first synthesized mephedrone in 1929, it’s a relative newcomer to the recreational-drug pantheon — a recent paper in the journal Lancet notes that it appeared in London about 2007. By 2015, it was responsible for 34 deaths, according to the Lancet study, up from 22 in 2014. 

Taking GHB, mephedrone and crystal meth together is meant to “induce a feeling of instant rapport with sexual partners,” the authors of the BMJ paper write. The ultimate goal is better sex — for long periods of time, frequently and with multiple partners. 

But Hannah McCall, an author of the editorial and a London-based reproductive-health expert, told The Washington Post in November she “wouldn’t call it outlandish behavior.” Rather, she wants chemsex participants to be aware of risks, which include unprotected sex and sharing needles. “A lot of people having chemsex make informed decisions, just as people using alcohol make informed decisions.”

The extent of chemsex’s popularity has been difficult to pin down. (One of the few studies to specifically address chemsex consists of interviews with 30 men.) In a survey of more than a thousand men who have sex with men in south London, 1 in 5 reported participating in chemsex at some point in the past five years. Part of the difficulty in assessing chemsex’s prevalence is because it’s such a new phenomenon — journalist Alex Klineberg, who detailed his experience with the chemsex scene for the Huffington Post, wrote that as recently as 2008, “nobody was talking about” chemsex. 

What draws people to chemsex is up for debate. According to the handful of studies that exist, men may take chemsex drugs to “manage negative feelings, such as a lack of confidence and self esteem, internalised homophobia, and stigma about their HIV status,” McCall and her colleagues wrote in the BMJ. Others argue marginalized men use chemsex as a bonding mechanism — or simply because chemsex feels good.

In an interview with British magazine Gay Times, BBC Radio 4 journalist Mobeen Azhar recounted his experience hunting for chemsex anecdotes. “I actively searched for someone to tell me how they’d made an informed and calculated choice to use chems and, that for them, the chem scene is just recreation.” What he found instead, Azhar said, were stories tinged with sadness. “Even those who told me sex on chems made them feel ‘like a don’ would follow up such celebratory statements with tales of rejection, regret, loneliness and longing for intimacy,” he said. “These became reoccurring themes among every chem user I spoke to.”

Hendron, the lawyer, has seen a brief encounter with chemsex sweep away a promising future. Before Jimenez’s death, Hendron was a rising star of a barrister, who had represented Parliament member Nadine Dorries and celebrities such as Stella English, a winner of the British version of “The Apprentice.” And he was well-connected, having purchased about $1,400 worth of chemsex drugs from a producer at the BBC, Alexander Parkin.

Now, once a month, Hendron travels to Jimenez’s home country of Colombia to visit his boyfriend’s grave, CNN reports. “I may go to prison and whatever I get, I deserve. I have made some stupid decisions and you have to stand up and accept that,” Hendron said to the BBC in April. “But that’s the price that drugs make you pay.” On Monday, London’s Central Criminal Court sentenced Hendron to 140 hours of community service.

More from Morning Mix today:

‘Make dating great again': For singles looking for love and a move to Canada if Trump becomes president

This 7-year-old gave his hair to cancer patients, then life took a devastating turn

Arkansas judge resigns after allegations that he offered men reduced sentences for sexual favors

Budweiser seeks approval to be called ‘America’ this summer

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

national



morning-mix











Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

national



morning-mix





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

