 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Paul Ryan’s staff is having a little fun — and venting their frustration — with the attention generated by their boss’s upcoming meeting with Donald Trump.

The speaker’s press shop is so tired of journalists asking about the get together — the first between the presumptive Republican presidential nominee and the party’s leading elected official — that they trolled the media on Tuesday by tapping into Trump-mania.

Their purpose? To call attention to what the House is up to this week on opioid abuse.

“House Republicans this week will follow through on their promise to address the alarming opioid epidemic sweeping the nation,” Ryan spokeswoman AshLee Strong wrote in a tetchy email to reporters with the subject line “Ryan/Trump.”

“The House will vote on a total of 18 bills that range from addressing opioid addiction amongst our veterans, to babies infected with this disease, to the current pain management best practices, and much more … We hope you’ll have time to review and write on this important and thoughtful action.”

Legislation to combat the heroin and painkiller addiction epidemic is one of the few big policy areas where Congress could act this year. Several Republicans in the House and Senate who are in tight re-election battles have highlighted their work on opioid bills in appeals to voters back home.

That makes it a bit awkward for leadership as the issue competes with the Trump-Ryan sit down for attention this week.

Naturally, Strong’s email got plenty of reaction from journalists on Twitter. From the left, right and center, here are some of their responses:

Will there be opioids in the Ryan/Trump meeting? https://t.co/CcDyoG4A1H

— Joel Gehrke (@Joelmentum) May 10, 2016



You know what Paul Ryan isn't going to do this week? Move an appropriations bill through the House.

— Josh Barro (@jbarro) May 10, 2016



You know, after the naming bison as the national mammal news… https://t.co/eCVvqKBNmH

— Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) May 10, 2016



@jbarro they're actually pushing through legislation to name the national marsupial duh

— Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) May 10, 2016



Do the nets have a count down clock up yet for the Trump/Ryan meeting? If not, why not?

— Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) May 10, 2016



So the most important thing happening in DC this week is a seperate meeting about whether Paul Ryan is running? pic.twitter.com/5Y78iawT1m

— Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 10, 2016



So the Ryan press shop figured out what the 4th Estate did long ago: if you want someone to read your stuff, good to get Trump up high.

— Pete Schroeder (@peteschroeder) May 10, 2016



Here’s the reaction from Ryan’s press shop:

@ZekeJMiller Huh, passing 18 anti-opioid bills & going to conference w/ Senate on their bill isn't important? Noted.

— AshLee Strong (@AshLeeStrong) May 10, 2016



@jbarro Huh, passing 18 anti-opioid bills & going to conference w/ Senate on their bill isn't important? Noted.

— AshLee Strong (@AshLeeStrong) May 10, 2016



SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

