

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Trump campaign has not contacted Indiana Gov. Mike Pence about No. 2 spot, spokesman says

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Indiana Gov. Mike Pence speaks during the Indiana Republican Party Spring Dinner April 21, 2016, in Indianapolis. (Photo: Darron Cummings, AP)

WASHINGTON — Indiana Gov. Mike Pence and Sen. Dan Coats dismissed speculation Tuesday that they could be Donald Trump's running mate.

“The governor has not been contacted about being vetted,” Marc Lotter, deputy campaign manager for Pence’s re-election campaign, said Tuesday in response to a Politico report that a source said Pence “has received vetting overtures from Trump Tower.”

The article also mentioned retiring Indiana Sen. Dan Coats as a possible Trump running mate, citing Trump's comment in March that he wanted someone who “can walk into the Senate and who’s been friendly with these guys for 25 years.”

"Senator Coats already has yuuuge plans for 2017 — spending the summer at Wrigley Field cheering on the Cubs," said spokesman Matt Lahr.

Coats has been outspoken in his criticism of Trump.

"Once again, Donald Trump has chosen bombastic rhetoric over sound judgment," Coats tweeted in December after Trump said Muslims should be banned from entering the United States.

In February, Coats told the Associated Press he was “increasingly concerned by Donald Trump's statements and behavior, and I have serious concerns about his ability to win the general election and provide presidential leadership.”

USA TODAY

Trump: People who said no to VP were never considered

The Politico article quoted an unnamed Republican saying picking Pence would “symbolically make a statement to the reform segment of the party.”

Pence endorsed Texas Sen. Ted Cruz before Indiana’s crucial primary, but did so while extensively praising Trump.

“If you really take a look at Mike Pence, I think he gave me more of an endorsement than Ted Cruz,” Trump told Fox News’ Chris Wallace at the time.

Since Trump’s decisive win in Indiana effectively ended the GOP presidential contest, Pence has said he is “fully supportive” of Trump and will campaign hard for the Republican nominee to win the White House.

But Pence told reporters in Terre Haute last week he doesn't want to be Trump’s running mate.

"I have no interest in that," Pence said. "I’m going to stay focused on the future of the people of Indiana.”

