

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

WASHINGTON — The current House speaker may not be going to the GOP convention, but the last one will be there.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

WASHINGTON — The current House speaker may not be going to the GOP convention, but the last one will be there.

Outgoing speaker John Boehner waves on Oct. 29, 2015. (Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)

Former Speaker John Boehner — never one to miss a good schmooze fest — plans to attend the Republican presidential nominating party this summer in Cleveland, even though many of his old GOP colleagues have vowed to skip the convention.

“It’s an important event for the state of Ohio, and he will be there,” said Boehner spokesman Dave Schnittger.

The long-time Ohio congressman's plans come amid escalating tensions between leading Republicans and the party’s presumptive nominee, Donald Trump. The most high-profile breach came last week, when House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said he was not yet prepared to endorse Trump.

Ryan is the top Republican elected official in the country and, as speaker, he is supposed to serve as co-chair of the convention overseeing Trump’s expected nomination. His reluctance to back Trump marked a growing rupture inside the Republican Party over Trump’s incendiary rhetoric and controversial proposals.

Over the weekend, Trump did not rule out removing Ryan from his convention role.

"I will give you a very solid answer, if that happens, about one minute after that happens. OK? But there's no reason to give it right now," Trump said Sunday on NBC's Meet The Press.

Ryan and Trump are  to meet this week on Capitol Hill to see if they can bridge their personal and policy divisions. In the meantime, Ryan said Monday he would relinquish his convention role if that’s what Trump wants.

“He's the nominee. I'll do whatever he wants with respect to the convention,” Ryan said in an interview with the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

Boehner, for his part, has said he and Trump are “texting buddies,” and he pledged to support Trump in the general election.

In an interview, Schnittger said Boehner is still mapping out his convention schedule.

“Whether he will have a formal role at the convention is not something that’s been decided or that he has fully considered,” Schnittger said. “Some of that is still in the planning phase.”

Maybe Boehner could fill in for Ryan, if the current speaker and Trump don't make amends by mid-July.

USA TODAY

Ryan says he would step down as convention chair if Trump asks

Contributing: Craig Gilbert, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

