—By Josh Harkinson

If the nationalists get their way, this November might be the last time Texans vote for a US president.

On Wednesday, the Platform Committee of the Texas Republican Party voted to put a Texas independence resolution up for a vote at this week's GOP convention, according to a press release from the pro-secession Texas Nationalist Movement. The resolution calls for allowing voters to decide whether the Lone Star State should become an independent nation.

Texas was, in fact, its own country for nine years before joining the United States in 1845, and while the idea of returning to independence has never been taken seriously by most people, it remains popular as a romantic notion and marketing hook. Lone Star beer is the "national beer of Texas." Texas Monthly is the "national magazine of Texas." In a 2009 rally, then-Governor Rick Perry hinted that the state could secede if "Washington continues to thumb their nose at the American people." He later backed off of the idea. (Representatives of the state GOP and Texas Nationalist Movement could not be reached for comment.)

The Texas Nationalist Movement, once considered a quixotic fringe group, has added hundreds of members in the years since the election of Barack Obama. According to the Houston Chronicle's Dylan Baddour, at least 10 county GOP chapters are coming to the convention supporting independence resolutions. But this will be the first time in the state's 171-year history that they will actually vote on one. It's very unlikely to win. Then again, that's what people said about Donald Trump.

 

Josh Harkinson is a staff reporter at 
 Mother Jones. For more of his stories, click here. Email him with tips at jharkinson (at) motherjones (dot) com. PGP public key. RSS | Twitter

Advertise on MotherJones.com

Mother Jones encourages readers to sign in with Facebook, Twitter, Google, Yahoo, Disqus, or OpenID to comment. Please read our comment policy before posting.


FOLLOW MOTHER JONES


Advertise on MotherJones.com

GET THE MAGAZINE

DIGITAL EDITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE ON:

Advertise on MotherJones.com

See All


    We noticed you have ad blocker on.
    Support nonprofit investigative reporting by pitching in a few
    bucks.
    DONATE
X


