

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Bernie Sanders says he had ample opportunity to attack Hillary Clinton, but that he's focused on the issues instead.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders addresses a campaign rally in Salem, Oregon, May 10, 2016. (Photo: Rob Kerr, AFP/Getty Images)

Bernie Sanders says he had ample opportunity to attack Hillary Clinton, but that he's focused on the issues instead.

“As you well know, there are many areas that I could have attacked Hillary Clinton on that I have chosen not to attack her on,” the Vermont senator said in an interview with MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell the day after winning the West Virginia primary. “What I have done is run an issue-oriented campaign. That is what the American people want.”

Sanders said that despite the fact that “the media loves every ridiculous remark that Donald Trump makes,” he won’t follow the billionaire's lead. Sanders then brought up his signature campaign issue: income inequality.

“Those are the issues that I talk about, not Bill Clinton's personal life, not Hillary Clinton's emails, not the Clinton Foundation,” Sanders said. “That is what Trump will talk about; that's what the media will talk about.”

And when Mitchell asked about criticism that Sanders' continued presence in the race was making it so that Clinton was “getting beat up on two fronts,” Sanders fought back.

“I don’t accept that proposition," Sanders said, adding that he, Clinton and Trump were all running for president. “What a candidate does is make his or her case to the American people," he said.

“In every state that we have won, in 19 states, we have had to take on the entire Democratic establishment,” Sanders said. “We've had to take on senators and governors and mayors and members of Congress. That's what we have taken on, so please do not moan to me about Hillary Clinton's problems.”

