

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Donald Trump on Tuesday began to outline his vision for a Supreme Court nominee, one who is an abortion rights opponent and likely to overturn Roe v. Wade.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    It probably comes as no surprise that Donald Trump won the Republican primaries in both West Virginia and Nebraska. Bernie Sanders was also a winner, beating out Hillary Clinton.
    VPC

Donald Trump on Tuesday began to outline his vision for a Supreme Court nominee, saying he wants someone who is an abortion rights opponent.

"Trump says he's pro-life. Please ask him to name one specific thing he would do to protect the sanctity of human life — can you?” Fox News host Bill O’Reilly asked (via a viewer question) the presumptive GOP nominee on The O'Reilly Factor, which aired Tuesday night.

“I will protect it. And the biggest way you can protect it is through the Supreme Court and putting people on the court. I mean actually the biggest way you can protect it, I guess, is by electing me president,” Trump said.

“So you’re going to get a judge who would overthrow, overturn Roe v. Wade that’s the specific thing you’re going to do?” O’Reilly asked.

“Well overturn or overturn, look I’m going to put conservative judges on,” Trump said.

In this June 30, 2014 file photo, the Supreme Court building is seen in Washington. (Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)

O’Reilly attempted to clarify further.

“Your specific thing to protect the sanctity of life would be appointing a Supreme Court justice that would overturn Roe v. Wade, do I have it?” O’Reilly asked.

“Well, they’ll be pro-life and we’ll see about overturning,” Trump said."I will appoint judges that will be pro-life."

Trump has repeatedly said he would appoint conservatives to the court, but largely hasn't elaborated on the details.

On Monday, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said that the presumptive nominee may have more luck uniting the party if he’s able to give more details about who he would pick for the court, including a list of five to 10 names he’s considering.

Shortly after the interview aired, Planned Parenthood Action Fund, which has endorsed former likely Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, fired out a response.

“Women can’t trust Donald Trump. Donald Trump goes on sexist rants that demean and disrespect women, and backs it up with a policy agenda that is dangerous and ignores the very real issues women face in this country,” Dawn Laguens, executive Vice President of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund said in a statement. “There is so much at stake for women and their access to reproductive health and rights in this election, and all Trump is doing is promising to take us backwards.”

