
	525
      

By

Siofra Brennan For Mailonline



Published:
  04:56 EST, 11 May 2016

 | 
Updated:
  11:03 EST, 11 May 2016



















          var twitterVia = 'Femail';
          DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', {
                    'id': '3584353',
                    'title': 'Calvin Klein is blasted for ad showing an upskirt picture of a model',
                    'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3584353/Calvin-Klein-blasted-underwear-ad-showing-upskirt-picture-model.html',
                    'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/1rUvDNm via @' + twitterVia,
                    'articleChannelFollowButton': 'Femail',
                    'isChannel': false,
                    'hideEmail': true,
                    'placement': 'top',
                    'anchor': 'tl'});
          });
      



525
shares

 
         438
View  comments


        DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DMS.Article.init('top');
        });
    



         438

View  comments

Their racy underwear ads starring Kendall Jenner have already grabbed attention, but Calvin Klein's latest offering is grabbing attention on social media for the wrong reasons.

The advert featuring Danish actress Klara Kristen, 22, features an upskirt shot that shows off her spotty underwear, inner thighs and buttocks with the caption: 'I flash in #mycalvins'.

However, the racy image has been branded creepy, sexist and 'fodder for paedophiles' since the design house posted it to Instagram yesterday. 

Scroll down for video 

Calvin Klein's latest underwear ad featuring an upskirt shot of actress Klara Kristin has caused controversy after being posted to Instagram with followers branding it 'creepy' and sexist 

Mail Online has contacted Calvin Klein for comment.

Although actress Klara is in her twenties, followers argued that the ad make her look a lot younger.

X_reloved_x commented: 'This is really off. What is Calvin Klein advertising in this her spotty undies?? She looks more like a 12-year-old. Good picture for paedophiles.'

Hybridsymphony agreed with their argument, saying: 'Misogynistic rubbish bordering on peadophilia. Gross. Some disturbed old guys wet dream. 



X_reloved_x was upset by the ad, saying it made the actress look a lot younger than her 22 years 

Hybridsymphony agreed the actress looked younger and branded the ad 'misogynistic rubbish.'

Hybridsymphony posted a long rant in response to another user who didn't understand what the problem with the ad was

Grxcelefeuvre replied to support Hybridsymphony's point saying she felt sickened by the photo shoot 

'I'm so sick of advertisers doing this. Parading teenage girls as sex symbols and advertising women's stuff in overtly sexualised ways.'

In response to another user who didn't understand what she problem with the ad was, she explained: 'It's making out that she's a young teen girl. That's THE POINT. 

'The message is one of misogyny, disrespect and patriarchal pseudo-paedophillia. I object to that. It weakens society and panders to mental illness. This brand can do better so there's no excuse.'

 

 





The ad was branded 'unnecessary' by several followers who felt it showed too much 

Grxcelefeuvre replied to support Hybridsymphony's point. 

'I feel the same as you. It's quite sickening that companies do photo shoots like this,' she said. 

Xxsighhalexa, however, was a dissenting voice in the argument. 

'No girl, you're slut shaming,' she said. 'This grown ass woman consented to this photo shoot and has every right to do it.'







Erila_laI'm was not impressed however, saying they were no prude but the ad is 'ridiculous', while Nicolalondon said it was 'disgusting and unnecessary', adding she would be unfollowing Calvin Klein. 

Truu_lover1219 agreed that the ad was a 'little too much' and that it showed more than people wanted to see.  

Meanwhile Anna_marie_94 wrote: 'Wtf? This is a really strange and unnecessary advertisement.'

Cutecurlycat had strong words, saying the ad was 'so wrong' and 'so creepy'.



'This isn't cutting edge, or innovative or directional or anything else you're trying to tell yourselves in the marketing department,' she said. 'It smacks of desperation.'

Larsonmark branded the racy ad 'distasteful' and Eishamarie89 added: 'Way to make everyone following CK a sexual predator.'

Aybuke.gumus was yet another who branded the ad 'creepy' while l0vezen added: 'Upskirt is a porn category!'


                                	Share what you think
                                

The comments below have been moderated in advance.


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.

Copy link to paste in your message

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

