

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

When it comes to the congressional delegation’s annual hotdish competition, the culinary knives come out.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Ryan Jensen, Dorothy Sietsema and Washington Post food critic Tom Sietsema judged the Minnesota delegation's hotdish competition on May 11, 2016. (Photo: Maureen Groppe, USA TODAY)

Minnesota nice only goes so far.

When it comes to the congressional delegation’s annual hotdish competition, the culinary knives come out.

“It’s a wonderful opportunity to gather together and celebrate my achievements,” boasted Rep. Tim Walz, D-Minn., who flexed his muscles and pumped his fists in the air after learning “Tim’s Turkey Taco Tot Hotdish” took this year’s top honors Wednesday.

Walz’s aides paraded around a Senate hearing room the commemorative casserole dishes Walz took home for his previous two wins.

Fierce competition this year but proud to take home the gold! Thanks, as always, to @SenFranken for hosting! pic.twitter.com/sM833rPTR8

Sen. Al Franken suggested Walz make a belt buckle out of a dish and wear it with an Elvis-type jumpsuit.

Sen. Amy Klobuchar lamented her recipes haven’t won since the first competition six years ago.

“And you’ve been very, very bitter about it,” Franken added.

Franken started the friendly competition as a way to put partisanship aside, bring the delegation together and celebrate a Minnesota culinary tradition.

“It’s a bonding experience,” he said, perhaps also referring to the cream of mushroom soup that often serves as the “Lutheran binder” in a hotdish.

Tater tots are another common ingredient, but previous years’ judges — former delegation members — had become too tater-tot friendly.

“We just got rid of them,” Franken said.

This year’s judges included Washington Post food critic Tom Sietsema, who came in a wig, ball cap and sunglasses to protect his anonymity as a top restaurant reviewer.

“Oh, we’ve gone all national,” Klobuchar said of the judging change.

Sietsema, who grew up in Worthington, Minn., was joined by his mother, Dorothy, and former Minnesotan Ryan Jensen, an owner of coffee shops.

My mom, 88, was thrilled to judge today's Minnesota hotdish contest on the Hill with @alfranken#sunbeamingpic.twitter.com/0I9fsc7KhS

“I’ve eaten more hotdishes than anyone because I’m the oldest,” said 88-year-old Dorothy Sietsema.

Worthington just happens to be in Walz’s district, which may have given him a home kitchen advantage.

Dorothy Sietsema said Walz’s dish looked as appetizing as it tasted.

“It looked like I wanted to scoop it up,” she said.

Another entry with a noteworthy appearance was Rep. Keith Ellison's "Chicken and Rice Hotdish," which was decorated with the symbol for the late musician Prince. Franken joked that it should've been called “The Casserole Formerly Known as Hotdish."

Rep. Keith Ellison decorated his hotdish entry with the symbol for the late musician Prince. (Photo: Maureen Groppe, USA TODAY)

Rep. Tom Emmer, R-Minn., was magnanimous — to a point — about the fact his Cuban-themed "Havana Hotdish" didn’t win.

“Obviously Tim Walz or — should we make it clear — his staff, must be doing something right,” Emmer said.

Emmer said he deferred to his staff’s choice of recipes this year when his mother’s hotdish didn’t win last year. But next year, Emmer said, he’s turning to his wife.

“Feeding a family of nine all the time, I’ve got some good ones,” Jacquie Emmer said.

Walz didn’t have just his hotdish to brag about this week. He also was the Democrats’ “top gun” at an annual congressional shooting competition.

“I can shoot and I can cook,” Walz said.

Follow @mgroppe on Twitter.

