Sign in to comment!

Sign in to comment!

Brazil soccer great Rivaldo is telling tourists to stay away from the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro because of the danger of endemic violence.

Rivaldo posted the warning on his Instagram account and alluded to the case of a 17-year-old woman killed on Saturday in a shootout.

"Things are getting uglier here every day," Rivaldo wrote. "I advise everyone with plans to visit Brazil for the Olympics in Rio — to stay home. You'll be putting your life at risk here. This is without even speaking about the state of public hospitals and all the Brazilian political mess. Only God can change the situation in our Brazil."

 Hoje pela amanhã no Rio de Janeiro os bandidos mataram esta menina de 17 anos. A coisa está cada vez mais feia no Brasil. Aconselho a todos que tem intenção de visitar o Brasil ou vir para as Olimpíadas no Rio, é para que fiquem no seu país de origem. Aqui você estará correndo risco de vida. Isto sem falar nos hospitais públicos que estão sem condições e toda esta bagunça na política brasileira. Só Deus para mudar a situação do nosso Brasil.

A photo posted by Rivaldo Ferreira (@rivaldooficial) on May 7, 2016 at 3:53pm PDT

The Olympics open in just under three months.

In a recent statement, Amnesty International said at least 11 people were killed in police shootings in Rio's impoverished favelas in April. It said at least 307 people were killed by police last year, accounting for 20 percent of the homicides in the city.

Violence is one in a long line of problems facing South America's first Olympics. Although venues are largely ready, the Zika virus, water pollution, and lukewarm tickets sales are worrying organizers. In addition, Brazil is in its deepest recession in decades and President Dilma Rousseff is fighting impeachment.



Advertisement

Advertisement

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2016 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ

