Sign in to comment!

Sign in to comment!


 


A new set of State Department documents released Thursday by the watchdog group Judicial Watch reveal then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made the choice not to use a secure phone line amid a technical problem and acknowledged the risk of using a private Blackberry phone.

The documents contain a Feb. 22, 2009, email exchange between Clinton and her then-Chief of Staff Cheryl Mills attempting to communicate over a secure line after Clinton returned from an overseas trip.  

When there were issues setting up a secure communication, Clinton wrote to Mills, “I called ops and they gave me your ‘secure’ cells… but only got a high-pitched whining sound.”  

Mills then suggested that Clinton try the secure line again, but the former secretary wrote back, “I give up.  Call me on my home #.”

Clinton's choice not to use a secure phone line is similar to a previous June, 17, 2011 email exchange with then-State Department deputy chief of staff Jake Sullivan, where she directed him to strip the classification markings of sensitive talking points and send through non-secure fax. 

"They say they've had issues sending secure fax. They're working on it," Sullivan wrote to Clinton.

The latest headlines on the 2016 elections from the biggest name in politics. See Latest Coverage →

"If they can't, turn into nonpaper w no identifying heading and send nonsecure," Clinton responded.

In a separate email from Feb. 27, 2008 released Wednesday, Clinton apologized to health care activist/physician Mark Hyman for failing to respond to a message because, “no blackberry contact permitted in my office.”

The documents were obtained in response to a court order from a May 5, 2015 lawsuit filed against the State Department after it failed to respond to a March 18 Freedom of Information Act request.

Fox News' Matthew Dean contributed to this report.



Advertisement

Advertisement









©2016 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ

