

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Lawmakers say Rep. Alan Grayson disrupted the Congressional Progressive Caucus Wednesday.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Rep. Alan Grayson, D-Fla. in Tallahassee, Fla., in October 2015. (Photo: Steve Cannon, AP)

The Congressional Progressive Caucus meeting got ugly Wednesday when Florida Rep. Alan Grayson confronted Sen. Harry Reid, according to reports.

The caucus meeting — scheduled so members could discuss immigration, the Supreme Court and Donald Trump —was disrupted when Grayson started questioning Reid about the Florida senate race, where Grayson is vying for the seat vacated by Sen. Marco Rubio despite the U.S. Senate Democratic leader's suggestion in February to drop out of the race.

USA TODAY

Senate Democratic campaign arm backs Patrick Murphy in Florida

Instead of letting bygones be bygones or clearing the air with Reid, Grayson channeled the spirit of Heisenberg. Yes, the legendary alter ego of Breaking Bad's antihero, Walter White.

Do you know who I am? Grayson asked Reid, Politico reported. Reid said yes.

"Say my name, senator," Grayson said. "Say my name."

-Say my name-You are Heisenberg pic.twitter.com/mCwnWtBC5W

Grayson considers himself a progressive candidate who won't kowtow to the Democratic leadership, claiming his opponent Patrick Murphy would, according to NBC.

Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota tried to shut down the dispute (maybe Grayson would have gone on to say he, not the presumptive GOP nominee, is the danger; who knows?).

Reid did explain to Grayson why he didn't support him and said he had "no moral compass": "Because it's true and I want you to lose."

Without a clear resolution to the tiff, the other members asked Grayson to put his feelings aside and get back to the topics at hand, NBC reported. Attention turned to Rep. Ruben Gallego, who posed questions about DREAMers.

