 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

“God decided the election!” the man shouted from underneath a giant and not-very-accurate papier-mâché model of Donald Trump’s head. “I am God of the GOP . . .”

 “TOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT,” interrupted the man next to him, a pro-Trump activist playing a ram’s-horn trumpet he had purchased on eBay.

“This is the way things are!” the papier-mâché head continued, his voice a little muffled under the costume. He was an anti-Trump protester from the group Code Pink, attacking Trump by impersonating him and acting egotistical. “And you women . . .”

 “TOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT!” went the horn again, blaring over the words of the head.

As Trump held closed-door meetings Thursday with Republican leaders in Washington, the scene outside captured an election where Americans became so divided, they even forgot how to disagree.

On the Capitol Hill sidewalk, a man who was barely making sense was drowned out by a man who was making random noises.

“Okay: Believe in spiritual or don’t believe in spiritual; God spoke to me and said that he was raising up Trump to trump the evil government of Obama,” said Johnny Rice, 48, the man with the horn, in a quiet moment later. He had come in from Maryland.

As the real Trump discussed party unity with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan inside, the faux Trump head, frustrated, moved to the other side of the street.

Free for a moment from the Trump trumpet, he resumed: “Donald Trump, you can’t hide. We can see your racist side!”

Trump made three stops on his one-day tour of Washington: at two Republican Party offices on Capitol Hill, and at the offices of a nearby law firm. He came and went in a parade of black vehicles, waving through tinted glass but saying nothing to the media or the crowd.

 [Trump, Ryan say they are ‘totally committed’ to uniting their party] 

At the U.S. Capitol, pro-immigration activists delivered taco salads to a couple dozen Republican lawmakers. The stunt was intended to tie them to Trump, who last week sent a tweet celebrating Cinco de Mayo by eating a taco bowl.

The crowds outside the two Capitol Hill stops were largely anti-Trump but fairly small.

At the first event, held at the Republican National Committee headquarters near the Capitol South Metro station, young activists gathered to protest Trump’s call for a mass deportation of undocumented immigrants. They carried a sign that read “RIP GOP” and held up a red cardboard coffin that they said represented the death of the Republican Party and “all of the injustice” it has directed at minorities.

As he walked in to the meeting with Trump, Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), an ally of GOP leadership, tried to temper expectations.

“I wouldn’t expect anybody to shift on positions or anything. This really is very much getting to know one another,” Cole said. After the meeting, he added, it would be important for both Ryan and Trump to “say something positive” about the other.

A low bar.

But at least they would be able to hear each other inside. Outside, the only thing missing from the bullhorn-and-ram’s-horn showdown was a bagpiper.

Then there was a bagpiper. He seemed to have invited himself.

“Freedom of speech is a fine thing,” said piper Ben Williams. “Freedom of music is a fine thing, too.”

Williams said his piping had a political message, too. He said he was an independent, tired of the nasty rhetoric on both sides. His public service was to drown them all out.

 [The Fix: How Ryan and the GOP are going to come around on Trump] 

Later, the scene shifted to the National Republican Senatorial Committee office, on the north side of Capitol Hill. Staffers could be seen waiting under an odd bit of office decoration: a flag from the Texas Revolution, adorned with a cannon and the words “Come and Take It.”

In Texas, it was a rebuke to the Mexican army, which sought to take back a cannon. In this context, apparently, the cannon is the Senate. If pundits are right, Trump may make it harder to keep.

Outside that meeting, a group of snappy-casual protesters showed up from the Democratic super PAC American Bridge. They held professionally done signs that showed various GOP senators wearing Trump-style “Make America Great Again” hats.

They joined with the coffin-bearing immigration protesters and waved signs at the building after Trump went in.

There was no sign of the papier-mâché Trump head. At the first rally, it had already been splitting open in the back.

“Show me what democracy looks like!” said one of the immigration protesters, Deyanira Aldana.

“THIS IS WHAT DEMOCRACY LOOKS LIKE!” the small group of protesters responded.

But, in this particular democracy, the more important story was probably what was happening across the street, behind the police line and the closed doors.

 Sean Sullivan, Paul Kane, Ed O’Keefe, Kelsey Snell and James Hohmann contributed to this report. 

Sean Sullivan, Paul Kane, Ed O’Keefe, Kelsey Snell and James Hohmann contributed to this report.

politics















Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

