Clinton campaigns in Kentucky before Tuesday's primary




         LOUISVILLE, Ky.        (AP) -- Hillary Clinton is making a big final push in Kentucky where rival Bernie Sanders hopes to extend his winning streak and further delay her clinching the Democratic presidential nomination.

Big-name surrogates have been dispatched, television ads are playing and Clinton is touring the state in advance of Tuesday&apos;s voting. On Sunday, the former secretary of state dropped in at Louisville churches and had two get-out-the-vote rallies on her schedule.

"We need a president who will work every single day to make life better for American families," Clinton said at a union training center in Louisville. "We want somebody who can protect us and work with the rest of the world. Not talk about building walls, but building bridges."

While Clinton leads Sanders by nearly 300 pledged delegates going into Tuesday&apos;s primaries in Kentucky and Oregon, the Vermont senator continues to win contests and has pledged to stay in the race until the July convention. With Donald Trump set as the presumptive Republican nominee, Clinton&apos;s team would like to turn their attention to the general election contest, but they still can&apos;t fully make that shift.

A win in at least one of the two upcoming contests would give Clinton momentum heading into the primaries in California and New Jersey in early June. Oregon is likely to go for Sanders, but Clinton&apos;s campaign thinks the race is competitive in Kentucky, where she planned to spend Sunday and Monday courting voters.

"It will be close, but either way, as with all the contests this month, we will gain additional delegates and move that much closer to clinching the nomination," Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said in an email.

Clinton easily won the Kentucky primary over President Barack Obama in 2008. But this time she has come under criticism in parts of the state after saying in March that "we&apos;re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business." Clinton later said she misspoke, but the comment has drawn fire in mining communities in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky.

On Sunday in Louisville, Clinton touted her plan for coal country. She briefly mentioned Sanders, questioning his support for the auto industry bailout, but focused most of her fire on Trump, hitting him for "reckless risky talk" and calling him a "loose cannon."

High-profile advocates campaigning for Clinton in Kentucky include Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine, former Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell and Reps. James Clyburn of South Carolina, G.K. Butterfield of North Carolina, Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas and Hakeem Jeffries and Joe Crowley of New York.

Clinton is spending about $325,000 on Kentucky ads. Sanders, after seeing her reserve airtime, followed behind with $126,000 in ads, according to advertising tracker Kantar Media&apos;s CMAG.

Going into Tuesday, Clinton has 1,716 pledged delegates from primaries and caucuses, compared with 1,433 for Sanders. When you add superdelegates, or party officials who can back any candidate, Clinton holds a much wider lead. She remains on track to reach the 2,383 needed to win the nomination by early next month.

Clinton and her supporters have avoided calling on Sanders to drop out of the race. But they worry that Sanders could damage her chances by staying put. The Vermont senator&apos;s economic hits on Clinton could benefit Trump, as he seeks to appeal to independent voters. In addition, Clinton cannot start wooing Sanders supporters until he is out of the way and she must continue campaigning in primary states, rather than general election battlegrounds.

A Trump adviser told CNN&apos;s "State of the Union" on Sunday that the campaign was hoping to appeal to Sanders supporters in the general election.

"You see Democrat support for Bernie Sanders that is potential Trump support, when it&apos;s indicated that they will never vote for Hillary Clinton, and when you analyze who those people are that are saying it, they&apos;re the very demographic that Trump is appealing to in independents and crossover Democrats," Paul Manafort said. "So, we think, in a number of places, for a lot of issues, jobs, integrity, coal, for example, in Pennsylvania and Ohio and elsewhere, we think there are a number of issues that allow us to expand the map."

In the audience for Clinton at the Louisville rally Sunday was local resident Nancy Hatcher, 69, who said she liked Clinton&apos;s experience and strength, though said she wasn&apos;t sure if she could win in Kentucky.

"I don&apos;t know," she said. "There&apos;s a lot of people that are in love with Bernie Sanders, but I don&apos;t think he is electable and she is."

---

Associated Press writer Julie Bykowicz in Washington contributed to this report.

© 2016 The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Learn more about our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

Copyright ©2007 ... 

