
	1.3k
      

By

Madlen Davies for MailOnline



Published:
  04:49 EST, 16 May 2016

 | 
Updated:
  15:29 EST, 16 May 2016



















          var twitterVia = 'MailOnline';
          DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', {
                    'id': '3592514',
                    'title': 'Man fractures PENIS during sex and hears it \'snap\'',
                    'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3592514/Man-fractured-PENIS-sex-describes-horrific-moment-heard-loud-snap.html',
                    'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/1OvpMTY via @' + twitterVia,
                    'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline',
                    'isChannel': false,
                    'hideEmail': true,
                    'placement': 'top',
                    'anchor': 'tl'});
          });
      



1.3k
shares

 
         239
View  comments


        DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DMS.Article.init('top');
        });
    



         239

View  comments

A man has described the agonising moment his penis snapped while having sex.

The 32-year-old was rushed to hospital in New Delhi after he heard a loud ‘snapping sound’ during ‘vigorous’ sexual intercourse – and then felt severe pain.

When he arrived at hospital his penis was bent at an odd angle and had turned completely black.

Doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi – who described the case in the journal BMJ Case Reports – said the man had what is known as an ‘eggplant deformity’.

The 32-year-old man was rushed to hospital after he snapped his penis during vigorous sex. He was taken for emergency surgery immediately (file photo)

They carried out ultrasound scans which showed he had torn the wall of the right corpora cavernosa.

The penis does not have a bone - but instead the corpus cavernosa - two tubes made of spongy material - run along its length.

Blood flows into this tissue, which is what makes the penis hard during an erection.  

The snap had led to a tear in the corpus cavernosa’s sheath, which meant blood leaked out, creating the swelling and turning it black.

He was immediately rushed for emergency surgery to drain away the excess blood gathered in the penis and correct the tear.

A penile fracture occurs when the appendage is subject to a sharp, blunt force trauma, which can occur during vigorous intercourse or masturbation. 

Since 1924, 1,600 cases have been recorded worldwide - roughly 16 instances per year, the Telegraph reports.

The man heard a loud 'snapping sound' during sex and felt severe pain. When he arrived in A&E  was bent at an odd angle and was completely black - and doctors said he had an 'eggplant deformity' (file photo)

And last year, Brazilian researchers found the 'woman on top' or 'cowgirl' position is to blame for half of all penile fractures that occur during sex.

In comparison, 'doggy style' or the woman on all fours is responsible for 29 per cent of injuries, while 'man on top' or 'missionary' is only liable for 21 per cent.

Doctors have previously warned breaks in the penis can lead to problems including erectile dysfunction, as scar tissue known as fibrous plaques can form in the penis, preventing blood from flowing in to sustain an erection.

It is also possible to suffer a curve or bend in the penis, and damage to the nerves in the genitals. 

Since 1924, some 1,600 penile fractures have been recorded worldwide - roughly 16 per year (file photo)

Last year, MailOnline reported the story of a 42-year-old who had to undergo emergency surgery after snapping a fibrous membrane inside the organ.

His erect phallus had inadvertently collided with his partner’s perineum, the area in front of the anus.

The man heard a snap, felt his penis become immediately flaccid, and noticed a rush of blood from the tip.

He was rushed to the A&E department of a Boston hospital as he was suffering severe pain, according to a case report in the New England Journal of Medicine.

There was also the story of Alan Parke, from Donegal, who heard his penis 'snap' during intercourse with his girlfriend Clarissa and 'saw blood spurt everywhere'.

'I've never known pain like it. It was absolutely excruciating,' Mr Parke told the Irish Mirror. 

The couple rushed to Letterkenny General Hospital where Mr Parke was immediately transferred to another hospital in Galway.

He then underwent emergency surgery to repair his broken penis. 

 




                                	Share what you think
                                

The comments below have not been moderated.


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.

Copy link to paste in your message

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

