
	508
      

By

Matt Roper In Brazil for MailOnline



Published:
  07:58 EST, 16 May 2016

 | 
Updated:
  11:07 EST, 16 May 2016



















          var twitterVia = 'MailOnline';
          DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', {
                    'id': '3592502',
                    'title': 'Brazil goes into economic free-fall but new first lady keeps shopping\u00A0',
                    'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3592502/New-York-shopping-trips-two-maids-racy-Playboy-photo-shoot-Brazil-s-new-lady-freeloading-family-attacked-Marie-Antoinette-spending-country-s-economy-crumbles-ahead-Rio-Olympics.html',
                    'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/1XeJvOA via @' + twitterVia,
                    'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline',
                    'isChannel': false,
                    'hideEmail': true,
                    'placement': 'top',
                    'anchor': 'tl'});
          });
      



508
shares

 
         220
View  comments


        DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DMS.Article.init('top');
        });
    



         220

View  comments

She insists on nothing but the best, whatever the price. And what Marcela Temer wants, Marcela Temer gets.

Brazil's glamorous new first lady might have just found herself in the world's spotlight, but the 33-year-old appears to have long been practicing for her superstar role.

Her extravagance and excesses - and often extraordinary demands - have been known about for years.

Lauded as the Brazilian Carla Bruni, the stunning former model is 42 years younger than husband Michel, 75, who became Brazil's interim president last week after Dilma Rouseff's suspension pending an impeachment trial.

Scroll down for video 

Glamorous: Marcela Temer, 33, is Brazil's new First Lady after her husband Michel, 75, took the top job and has been raising eyebrows for her wanton spending of public money (and the age difference with her husband)

Flush: Marcela, who is 42 years younger than her husband, spent millions of public cash on house renovations

Despite the country's economic turmoil, Marcela Temer has refused to compromise on her opulent lifestyle

Dilma, who led the country since 2011, is accused of illegally manipulating finances to hide a growing public deficit ahead of her re-election in 2014.

But as Marcela settles into her even more privileged position, many in Brazil might not feel quite as proud to have, as one newspaper described her, 'the world's most most beautiful first lady.'

With the Latin American nation in economic free fall, and rocked by scandals involving greedy politicians, few will forgive the ostentatious first lady who seems dangerously disconnected from the woes of her country.

As she stood next to her husband at last week's inauguration ceremony, Brazilians were already venting their anger at the women who, for many, symbolises the country's gaping social inequalities.

'Look at that stuck-up woman, now we'll be paying for her shopping trips in Milan and Paris,' commented one.

'Great, now there's no hope for reducing the national debt. Her expenses will see to that,' said another. 



It doesn't seem to bother Marcela though.

Even as her country slipped into recession, with millions losing their jobs and businesses closing by the minute, the wife of Brazil's new president refused to compromise on her opulent lifestyle.

When Michel, on taking office as vice-president in 2011, was given the keys to his official residence, she reportedly demanded a long list of multi-million pound refurbishments before agreeing to move in - to make her toddler son feel at home.

They included improvements on the swimming pool at the Jaburu Palace, all paid for by public money.

So for a year she stayed at Temer's £2million home in Sao Paulo, accompanied by her mother, while Temer lived in Brasilia on his own and visited Marcela and their son on weekends.

Once she did move there, expenses paid from the public purse shot up.

The good life: Marcela's mum Norma joined Marcela and her son on a shopping holiday to New York and another to Miami, just to celebrate Brazil's 'children's day'. Above, the family enjoy a fancy meal out

Mama: Marcela's mother Norma, who at 62 is thirteen years younger than her son-in-law, posts pictures of the results of plastic surgery around her eyes as well as photos of her flying first class with her daughter

Cheers: She has spent hundreds of thousands of her husband's (and the public's) money on treating her family to the high life she has enjoyed since marrying millionaire husband and now President Michel Temer

Travel:  Marcela's sister Fernanda Tedeschi (left), leads an exotic life of champagne, shopping and holidays

Carnival: Marcela's mother stays with her daughter in Brasilia along with the nanny, a cook and two maids

Lavish: Her sister and her friends are regularly seen on lavish shopping sprees at local malls

The family-of-three have four chambermaids just to wash and iron their clothes. 

Then, when she insisted her mother and younger sister join her living in the capital Brasilia, Michel bought a £1.5million five-bedroom mansion on the same street, and rented another four-bedroom nearby property for nearly £5,000 a month, so they could be close by. 

 And while the family only visited Sao Paulo on some weekends, they still insisted on a full-time army of staff at their house there.

Tattoo: She has her husband's name tattoed on her neck, which was first spotted in a 2011 appearance

Again, public money was used to rent an entire house close to their home in the upmarket Alto dos Pinheiros district, with an incredible 52 members of staff, including a team of elite bodyguards. The total cost of the Temer 'support house' was more than £20,000 a month. 



According to observers, mother Norma and sister Fernanda also now appear to be living the high-life on the back of the millionaire politician, and are regularly seen on lavish shopping sprees at local malls.

While Marcela, her mother and sister used to dash around the capital doing manicures, facials, hair and beauty treatments, they mysteriously stopped frequenting their preferred clinics a few months later, amid rumours that she had contracted a team of professionals to do the job at home.

It would certainly fit the vain persona remembered by her childhood friends.

Thathiany Ferraz Pereira, 31, said: 'When we were young we imitated Xuxa (Brazilian children's TV star). She was the one who went to the greatest lengths, dressing herself, doing her make-up. She would spend ages in front of the mirror. She was and seems to still be very vain.'

Last year divorced Norma, who at 62 is thirteen years younger than her son-in-law, revealed on the internet the results of a plastic surgery procedure around her eyes. She also posted photos of herself enjoying first-class international flights.

She also joined Marcela and her son on a shopping holiday to New York and another to Miami, just to celebrate Brazil's 'children's day'.

Sister Fernanda, meanwhile, posed nearly naked in a provocative shoot for Playboy magazine - although, apparently under pressure from Temer, pulled out of the deal at the last minute and the photos were never published. They were later mysteriously leaked on the internet.

Even when she goes out for dinner, Marcela's diva antics are worthy of the most grandiose celebrities.

Palace: Marcela reportedly refused to move to Jaburu Palace, the official residence of Brazil's Vice President and only moved in when it had undergone multi-million pounds worth of renovations paid for by the public purse

She then insisted her mother and younger sister join her living in the capital Brasilia, so husband Michel bought a £1.5million five-bedroomed mansion on the same street, and rented another four-bedroom property nearby

Staff: The family only visited Sao Paulo on some weekends, but still employed full-time army of staff  there

High-life: Improvements included work on the swimming pool at the Jaburu Palace, all paid for by public money

Property mogul: Not only does President Temer own a £2million house in Sao Paolo, but he rents a house nearby for family at a rate of £20,000 a month - including salaries for 52 members of staff

Recently, when she wanted a quiet meal with her husband at the exclusive Antiquarius restaurant in Sao Paulo, instead of having to share the upmarket space with other diners, she closed it for the entire evening.

As the couple shared an intimate dinner together, four bodyguards - one in the kitchen, one in the bathrooms, one at the entrance and one in the dining room - made sure they were not interrupted, according to reports.

Back home, the 33-year-old reportedly has a nanny, a cook and two maids, as well as her mother and sister, just to help her look after her only son, Michelzinho, now seven.

Even the school run and the daily walk of her Golden Retriever, Thor, has now been delegated to her staff.

And no wonder. With a full agenda of almost daily hair and beauty treatments, manicures, sessions with personal trainers, dermatologists and nutritionists, as well as those extravagant lunches and shopping trips - always accompanied by up to five security guards - Brazil's new first lady has a punishing schedule.

Diva: High-maintenance Marcela is known to shut down restaurants to get some privacy when she eats 

Hangers-on: She moved her mother and sister in a mansion on the same street and they frequently accompany her on shopping trips, first class flights, as well as hair and beauty appointments

Saucy: Revealing photos of Marcela were also for sale from a mystery source in her hometown who claimed to have 18 photos of his wife in revealing attire, demanding £5,000 for their return. Temer didn't pay up

Vain: Friends from childhood have brandy the former beauty queen as vain, and don't think she's changed 

Brazilians voters were not sold on the prospect of their new First Lady, who has a knack for spending public money. 'Look at that stuck-up woman, now we'll be paying for her shopping trips in Milan and Paris,' commented one. Above, Marcela's sister Fernanda outside the Louvre museum in Paris

And its something friend's say she'll be loathe to give up for her new official role.

Friend Patricia Nakahodo, who also worked as Marcela's dermatologist, said: 'Her routine is to do normal things, go to shopping malls, buy her own clothes. 

'She doesn't have a personal stylist, because Marcela has her own unique style of dressing. I don't know if things will now be different, but she's not one to stay confined to her home.' 

Although it's not a bad step-up for a girl who grew up on a dirt road and who only has 'receptionist' and 'beauty contest runner-up' on her CV.

Marcela was 19 and living in her home town of Paulinia, 70 miles from Sao Paulo, when she first met Michael Temer, then a well-known congressman, who was guest of honour at the launch of a local politician's candidature in 2002.

The pretty young girl, who had come second in the town's Miss Paulinia contest that year, was accompanied by her uncle, who encouraged her to ask to take a photo with the congressman. She left with a photo and the politician's phone number.

Days later, Marcela sent an email to Temer's office, who forwarded it to him by fax - and romance blossomed.

Humble beginnings: Marcela met Michel when she was modelling in a beauty pageant when she was just 19

Home: The former swimwear model met her millionaire congressman husband when he was visiting her hometown of Paulinia, 70 miles from Sao Paulo. He gave her his number and she sent him an email 

Marcela's mother Norma reportedly accompanied her daughter - who until then had never even flown by plane - on her first date with the congressman, who is reportedly worth over £3 million.

A year later, the couple married but, perhaps wary of what people would make of their unlikely relationship, the nuptials were kept secret and only 20 guests were invited to the secret ceremony.

Temer's new wife was at least ten years younger than all of his other children from previous relationships, who are aged 43, 45 and 47.

But to her proud father Carlos Araujo, who is now separated from her mother, Marcela's her critics are just jealous of his perfectly preened daughter who bagged herself a millionaire. 

'People say these things because they are burning up with jealousy. 

'I have no regrets about my daughter meeting Michel,' he said in an interview.

'My daughter is very happy. She is simple, reserved and [has her] feet on the ground. She knows she is only the wife of a vice-president. She knows she is not the star.'

Marcela first became a national talking point in 2011, after the inauguration ceremony of president Rousseff, where she appeared alongside the new vice-president.

Cameras also noticed a tattoo on the back of her neck inscribed with husband Michel's name, along with that of their son, Michelzinho.

Gossip columns and the internet went into overdrive, and for days Marcela was the No1 trending subject on Twitter in Brazil, while newspapers compared her to Carla Bruni and even Jackie Kennedy.

The interested was so great that, a week later, Temer broke off an interview to try to halt the media attention about his wife, insisting that she was nothing like the French first lady: 'She is incredibly discreet, she is my wife and the mother of my son,' he said.

It didn't help that, a year later, he published a book of poems called 'Anonymous Intimacy' inspired by Marcela, in which the then 72-year-old appeared to talk about his exhausting sex life.

'My mind, my soul, in embers, my body, burned up, consumed, dissolved, finally, leaving only ashes, spilled on the bed, to sleep', one of them writes.

Soon afterwards, the first saucy pictures of Marcela emerged, after a mystery source in her hometown claimed to have 18 photos of his wife in revealing attire, demanding £5,000 for their return.

Temer refused to pay up and they were later offered to journalists for £2,500.

For many Brazilians,  Marcela and her family's lavish life symbolises the country's gaping social inequalities

The women treat themselves to manicures, facials, and beauty treatments while the country suffers poverty

Meanwhile, Marcela's contribution to public life mirrors her personal one - during the UN conference on sustainable development in 2012, she held a jewellery catwalk show for the wives of world leaders, exhibiting items made with precious stones worth up to £10,000 each.

Then last month the vice-president had to deal with another potentially embarrassing episode after a hacker reportedly retrieved three 'intimate' photos of Marcela from her mobile phone and demanded £70,000 for their return. Temer went to the police and last week the hacker was arrested, before any of the photos leaked out.

Perhaps his biggest headache, though, will be trying to rein in his high-maintenance wife while, as the country's new 'austere' president, he attempts to show the country he is reining in excessive spending.

Taking office at the swearing-in ceremony last week, Temer said: 'First of all, we need to balance our public spending. The sooner we are able to balance our books, the sooner we'll be able to restart growth.'

Already unpopular with voters after himself being named in Brazil's corruption investigations, and nicknamed The Butler because he is said to resemble a horror movie character, having a glamorous wife who continues to live a life of unashamed opulence, could be more a liability than an asset.

But Brazil's problems run much deeper and will take much longer to fix.

Unemployment skyrocketed in 2015, with economists predicting the number of those out of work to go into double figures in the coming months.

About a third of unemployed Brazilians have been out of work for more than six months, the highest rate the country has seen in ten years.

Yummy mummy: The then vice-president had to deal with another potentially embarassing episode after a hacker reportedly retrieved three 'intimate' photos of Marcela from her mobile phone

Little Michel: The couple's seven-year-old son is doted upon by a nanny, and his grandmother - who is younger than her President son-in-law. Abover, Marcela with her son, she is said to want a second child 

Michel Temer has appointed an all white, all male cabinet - the first since the end of the dictatorship in 1985



To add to the turmoil, more than two million Brazilians are now expected to lose unemployment benefits by June, potentially pushing hundreds of thousands of families back below the poverty line.

Last year, more than 191,000 businesses went bust in the once booming Latin Amercian country as Brazil's GDP shrank by 3.8 per cent, worse than almost any other mayor economy.

Meanwhile, the country is battling a number of other crises. 

It suffered its biggest ever ecological disaster in 2015 when two mining dams collapsed, unleashing 50 million tons of highly toxic sludge, including chemicals such as arsenic and mercury, into one of the country's main rivers. 

Perhaps most urgent is the country's Zika virus epidemic which continues to sweep the country since being declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organisation.

An estimated 1.5million people have already been infected, while at the last count there have been 1,113 cases of brain-deforming microcephaly in newborn babies since October last year. Nearly 4,000 other possible cases are still being investigated.

But the amount of money put aside to fight the Zika crisis is 16 times less than what has been spent on hosting the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, which start on August 5.

The Olympics, which have so far cost over £7billion, and was supposed to be a 'coming out party' for once-booming Brazil, is another massive headache.

With a surge in violent crime in Rio, and worries over the Zika epidemic, terrorism and protests amid the country's political upheaval, only half of the 7.5million tickets have been sold. A global travel warning ban is advising pregnant women not to travel to Brazil 



And there is potential for more violence street protests as political uncertainty, anger at the growing gap between rich and poor, and clashes between supporters on the right and left, continue to escalate.

One thing is for certain - the turmoil won't effect Marcela Temer, whether she decides to curb her public displays of excess or not.

Whether Marcela will have any effect on the turmoil, however, is yet to be seen. 


                                	Share what you think
                                

The comments below have not been moderated.


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.

Copy link to paste in your message

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

