
	Even cisgender people aren’t safe from the transphobic mania over bathrooms.


	A Connecticut woman, who sports a pixie haircut, says she was harassed in a Walmart restroom by a woman who apparently mistook her as transgender.


	After posting a Facebook video about the incident, Aimee Toms said she’s been threatened by internet trolls and called a “lesbian” and “whore.”


	“People have irrational fears, I'd like for them to know this simply isn't something to be so angry about,” Toms, 22, told the Daily News.

 STASI: Attitudes toward LGBT haven’t changed since Stonewall 


	“Transgender people affect their lives in no way, shape, or form.”


	The alleged incident comes as North Carolina’s obsessive quest to restrict transgender bathroom use has exploded into the national issue, with the Justice Department suing the state over the law it called “state-sponsored discrimination.”


	In the ongoing debate over the state’s HB2 law, one school district has reportedly allowed students to carry pepper spray to ward off transgender students in bathrooms.


	Toms said in her video she was using the bathroom at a Danbury Walmart Friday when a woman suddenly approached her from behind and yelled, “You are not supposed to be here! You need to leave!” The woman then flipped off Toms, told her she’s “disgusting” and stormed out, Toms said.


	Toms said she believes her short hair, and the baseball cap she wore that day, made the woman mistake her for a transgender woman using the women’s bathroom — which, in Connecticut, is perfectly legal.


	“I can get why at first glance she would mistake me for somebody who’s transgender,” Toms said in her Facebook video, which has been viewed nearly 20,000 times she posted it Friday.

 Gov. Cuomo backs lawsuit to fight North Carolina’s LGBT law  


	But she was left shaken by seeing the hysteria firsthand.


	"This same thing happened in the 1960s when black people wanted to use the same bathrooms as white people," she said in the video.


	"This is nothing different. History repeats itself."


	Toms said she is cisgender and dating a man. She also said in the video a man once followed her into a women’s bathroom and tried to rape her — further proof, she said, that the fear of transgender terror in bathrooms is misplaced.


	Toms said she didn’t report the incident, and Walmart did not respond to messages from the Daily News.

 North Carolina LGBT law violates the Civil Rights Act 


	But the retail chain has thus far remained silent on the topic of transgender bathroom use — even though Target, one of its competitors, emphatically stated it is fine with transgender shoppers using whichever restroom they choose. The News asked Walmart to clarify where it stands on the debate.

