This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/program-to-offer-students-grants-for-college-classes-while-still-in-high-school-1463420741

The U.S. Department of Education is piloting a program to allow low-income high-school students to get funds to enroll in college-level courses, an effort to boost academic outcomes for the nation’s neediest students.

The Dual Enrollment Pell Experiment, announced Monday, will be tested for three years at 44 postsecondary schools across 23 states, including Norwalk Community College in Norwalk, Conn.; Southern New Hampshire University in Manchester, N.H.; and Leeward Community College in Oahu, Hawaii.

Most of the chosen sites are community colleges, as President Barack Obama continues to push for expanded access to such institutions.

The Education Department estimates that in the 2016-17 academic year, 10,000 high-school students will have access to about $20 million in federal Pell funds, which are reserved for the neediest students. 

In February, Mr. Obama proposed boosting the maximum dollar amounts for such grant aid and reiterated his support of making two years of community college tuition-free for all Americans.

“Innovation is an important underpinning in our efforts to expand college access and increase college completion for our nation’s students,” U.S. Undersecretary of Education Ted Mitchell said, adding that he’s excited the institutions have joined a call “to reimagine the high school experience.”

While more than 1.4 million high-school students took college courses for credit through dual-enrollment programs in the 2010-2011 academic year, many had to pay out of pocket, leaving such opportunities out of reach for low-income students. 

High-school students are currently barred from accessing federal Pell grants, but the Department of Education is overruling that limitation via authority it has under the Higher Education Act to test flexibility for programs that participate in federal student aid plans.

The department will study the impact of early access to financial aid on low-income students’ college-going and completion rates. It said research suggests students who participate in dual-enrollment programs have better high school grades and are more likely to enroll in, and get credentials from, college.

 Write to Melissa Korn at melissa.korn@wsj.com 

 The is plenty of access to college if students want to start at community colleges, and they are affordable.  The problem with access is that there is too much access.  There are kids in colleges that do not belong there.  Colleges have dumbed down the curriculums to keep students that would have flunked out years ago.  Did I say flunked out?  How politically incorrect. 

 The is plenty of access to college if students want to start at community colleges, and they are affordable.  The problem with access is that there is too much access.  There are kids in colleges that do not belong there.  Colleges have dumbed down the curriculums to keep students that would have flunked out years ago.  Did I say flunked out?  How politically incorrect. 

@DAREN D MILLER Too many dummies being bred from dummies.

@DAREN D MILLER 



Too many dummies being bred from dummies.

Really, roll the numbers out of how many low income children there are and give us the percentages of the illegal ones too. Play fair, the taxpayer DEMANDS it. We want numbers. We also want to see the generations of this poverty wagon and ask why.  

Really, roll the numbers out of how many low income children there are and give us the percentages of the illegal ones too. 



Play fair, the taxpayer DEMANDS it. 



We want numbers. We also want to see the generations of this poverty wagon and ask why.  

Very clever.....let's give away another $20 million, pat ourselves on the back for being a do gooder for helping the poor high school kids who can't pass the standard tests for graduation,  and then conduct a study of this wonderful program to justify our jobs at a worthless department of government that is a gross waste of taxpayer's money!!  Your government at work......come on Trump!!

Very clever.....let's give away another $20 million, pat ourselves on the back for being a do gooder for helping the poor high school kids who can't pass the standard tests for graduation,  and then conduct a study of this wonderful program to justify our jobs at a worthless department of government that is a gross waste of taxpayer's money!!  Your government at work......come on Trump!!

Report Finds Few Barriers to Open Transgender Military Service

Hollywood Eyes Documentary Remakes for the Big Screen

Starbucks to Raise $500 Million in Sustainability Bond

How Women Took Over the World of Running

Lessons for Stopping an Adult Cyberbully

New From Credit Suisse: Bonds for Self-Inflicted Catastrophes

Oil Prices Settle at 2016 High

Canada Wildfires Prompt New Evacuations


Subscribe NowSign In


WSJ Membership

Customer Service

Tools & Features

Ads

More

Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

