Nothing that happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. Everyone brags about what they won or lost, what they did or didn’t do.

But it’s a city you feel duty-bound to visit for fear of missing out, whether you want to go or not.

Gambling will never be my thing. I can’t see the attraction of tumbling dice on green baize, or watching a little ball bouncing between black and red with tomorrow’s meal money resting on it.

But Sin City is starting to outgrow that narrow identity, and word has it there’s now more to it than the Strip.

Vegas is actually pretty cool right now. And I don’t mean “remember-the-Ratpack” cool. I mean hipsterish.

Downtown Vegas has the feel of a burgeoning Williamsburg in New York, or Shoreditch in London.

We’re talking about rock’n’roll gastronomy, cocktails by the flute-load, craft beer, a Frank Gehry building, a vinyl haven (11th Street Records) and a proper theatre (The Smith Centre).

Read more: How to spend 48 hours in Philadelphia

There’s an entire arts district, 18b, with the thriving First Friday festival drawing 20,000-plus people on the first Friday of every month to its mass art sale.

There’s a music festival called Neon Reverb, which costs $50 (£33) for a wristband that gets you into every show in multiple venues across four days.




Gavin goes hunting for vinyl at 11th Street Records




These are things I did not expect Vegas to have. And it didn’t – until recently.

An influx of creatives and entrepreneurs have made a community in its previously dilapidated downtown area attracting new bars, eateries and social spaces to cater for them.

Between 2010 and 2014 some $1.55bn of public money was pumped into the area.

And some impressive attractions – the Mob Museum, Neon Museum, a new City Hall and The Smith Centre – are turning Downtown into a culture-rich experience where old and new dovetail.

Vegas didn’t really exist until 1906 when it sprang up as a stop-off point on a train line trade route.

Read more: Hostels offer chic city breaks that won’t break the bank














Video loading













Watch next







Watch this video again

Watch Next








Click to play



The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started










At first Downtown was where Vegas was at. Then, as big hotels and casinos opened up on the city’s famous Strip, Downtown slowly fell out of fashion and sank into disrepair.

But now the retro vibe of all that faded glamour is coming into its own. Behold the Neon Museum, a two-acre outdoor space housing 200 trademark Vegas signs from bygone days at the Stardust and The Golden Nugget.

Not all of them work and the museum itself isn’t well lit so they it’s best to visit in the daytime or at dusk.

Its stylish calm doesn’t quite fit with dazzling new Fremont Street Experience, a bizarre 1,500ft-long canopied run of open-air bars, tacky gift shops, nearly-nude street entertainers and – 90ft above you the Slotzilla zipline.




Visitors ride SlotZilla at the Fremont Street Experience




Yup, a zipline running from one end of the shopping centre to the other, so shoppers and drinkers can gawp up at riders literally screaming past them overhead. Did I mention that the roof is a video screen?

Things get less touristy and more fashionable in nearby Fremont East.

There you’ll find Carson Kitchen, founded by the late celebrity restaurateur Kerry Simon, known to American TV viewers as the Rock ’n’ Roll chef.

It’s a menu of funked-up soul food I’d go out of my way to eat - at decent prices - washed down with great Negroni.

The Shrimp Dunderi in Limoncello, and Bourbon Fudge Brownie with Brown Butter Bacon Ice Cream dessert blew my tastebuds, all served by waitresses in rock icon T-shirts.

Kurt Cobain brought our starters, Keef Richards served the mains and Hendrix delivered the desserts. Mains are $12 to $19 and desserts are all $8.

There’s a more-ish brunch on offer at Park On on Fremont, where you chow down on the Garbage Fries ($13) and steak tacos ($11) brought by leather-jacketed waitresses who look like they just stepped out of an NME photoshoot.

Everywhere in Vegas offers steak but pick the 12oz Filet Mignon ($48) at The Mob Room inside The Golden Steer, the coolest old-Vegas hangout in town.

For nightlife try the eclectic Beauty Bar, with its backyard open air music stage and BBQ spot.




The artsy crowd have given Downtown a new lease of life




There are plenty of music venues (Bunkhouse Saloon, Backstage Bar & Billiards, Fremont Country Club) and a speakeasy – The Laundry Room, hidden inside Commonwealth.

Wherever you drink Downtown, it’s hard to get a bad beer. The craft scene has exploded, with PT’s Brewing Co the latest micro- brewery.

And if cocktails are your thing you won’t be disappointed.

We stayed at the excellent Downtown Grand, barely 500 yards from Fremont Street and like every hotel it has its own casino.

The gambling is unavoidable, 24 hours a day, and it’s surreal to see punters playing craps at 8am when you come down for pancakes.

I almost avoided The Strip for the whole trip, but eventually curiosity got the better of me.

I spent 90 minutes in Caesars Palace – 60 of which were devoted to trying to finding my way through the cavernous shopping mall.

But finally I gambled - and lost precisely one dollar on a slot machine.

WHERE TO STAY Rooms at the Downtown Grand start at $39 (£26) per night. downtowngrand.com

STAY SAFE Downtown is on the up but it still has its “edge” so don’t wander alone at night.

GETTING THERE Virgin Atlantic flies to Vegas daily from Gatwick. Return fares start at £664. virgin-atlantic.com , 0844 209 7777

MORE INFO Check out lasvegas.com/uk

 

 




Find a travel bargain



Cruise Deals



Cheap Flights



Last Minute Holidays



Ski holidays



1
of 4





 

 

Helen Beatty says it's easy to see why Mexico is topping holiday wish-lists with glorious sunshine and something for everyone

