 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

The government will start scanning Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and other social media accounts of thousands of federal employees and contractors applying and re-applying for security clearances in a first-ever policy released Friday.

Federal investigators looking at applicants’ backgrounds to determine their trustworthiness will not ask for passwords or log in to private accounts, limiting their searches to public postings. And when they find information that has no relevance to whether they should have access to classified information, it will be wiped from government servers, the policy promises.

The directive from Director of National Intelligence James Clapper is an official acknowledgment that social media is a tool as important to security clearances as interviews with friends and family and other checks the government has made for decades.

More and more people, whether suspected terrorists or those who have allegedly committed mass shootings, have posted their intentions on public social media sites or talked about violent views. Just this week, the Secret Service said it would investigate Donald Trump’s former butler over his racially explicit Facebook posts calling for President Obama to be killed.

[Here’s the new policy from Director of National Intelligence James Clapper]

“Agencies make security clearance decisions using a ‘whole person approach’ to assessing who is an acceptable security risk,” Beth Cobert, acting director of the Office of Personnel Management, told lawmakers Friday at a hearing on the new policy. “One component of that approach in the 21st century is social media.”

Investigators will examine only information that is readily available through online searches. Applicants for clearances will not be required to disclose Facebook “friends” whose names are otherwise hidden, or reveal all of their Twitter handles.

[Beware what you post: The government may start scrutinizing federal employees’ social media postings]

William Evanina, Director of National Counterintelligence and Security Center, said Friday that federal investigators will only “intentionally collect” what he called “publicly available social media information.”

“Absent a national security concern, nothing will be investigated or held by government computers,” he told lawmakers on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.

OPM, which does one million background investigations every year for federal agencies, is starting a pilot program to test how social media will figure into the the security clearances required for tens of thousands of federal jobs and contracts.

Congress also is considering a bill to require similar new scrutiny during background checks of intelligence agency employees.

Officials told two panels of the House Oversight Committee that they have been considering social media searches for years, but struggled to balance the privacy rights of applicants with national security needs. And there are still many questions about how the new policy will work.

“We haven’t identified the full value of social media,” Evanina said. “Is the effort and resource allocation worthy of collecting it? Where do we allocate [these searches] during the investigative process? It will be resource-intensive.”

Right now, private companies charge the government anywhere between $100 and $500 to screen one applicant’s social media postings. Tony Scott, the Obama administration’s chief information officer, told lawmakers he hopes the process will take more advantage of automation to lower the cost.

Some lawmakers said they worry the government will scoop up too much detail in its net.

“How does this work?” asked Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.), the top Democrat on the Oversight Government Operations subcommittee. “We’re talking about the block party in July in my cul-de sac. How do we flag the serious from the trivia? How do we make sure we don’t have some enormous depository of government information” that’s kept?

Evanina tried to reassure him that the government will not keep details about block parties and other musings, comments, links, opinions and details that are not relevant to a security clearance.

Other lawmakers were concerned that the new policy does not require searches for someone’s aliases or other social media identities they said could lead investigators to a lot of relevant information.

“Why would this not be a part of your new policy?” asked Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) chairman of the Government Operations panel.

Evanina promised to get back to him soon with answers and a decision on whether other online identities should be part of a background investigation.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

