 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

The chairman of the House Armed Services Committee this week will try to strip language from legislation he oversees that would require women to register for the draft, blaming himself for not stopping the proposal from getting in the bill in the first place.

Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Tex.) on Monday said he “didn’t probably do everything I should have” to keep an amendment from Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) that would enact the policy change from being added to the annual defense policy bill when it was considered by his committee.

The success of the amendment surprised many GOP members and even Hunter voted against his own proposal. Hunter said he only offered it to start a “discussion” about the Obama administration’s recent decision to allow women to serve in any combat role, a policy change he opposes. The Pentagon has not taken a position on Hunter’s amendment but top military officials have supported the idea of including women in the draft during congressional testimony.

  [Pentagon: Opening combat roles to women alters ‘factual backdrop’ in keeping them out of the draft]  

Thornberry voted against Hunter’s amendment too, but since the committee adopted the proposal last month the idea of including women in the draft has only picked up steam, earning the endorsement of the Senate Armed Services Committee last week as well.

  [Key Senate panel endorses women in the draft, making policy change more likely]  

Thornberry told a Washington Post editorial board meeting on Monday that when the annual defense policy bill comes to the floor this week he will offer an amendment that would strip Hunter’s language because members “haven’t had a chance to look at this.”

Hunter’s amendment seeks to replace the language requiring women to register for the draft with a proposal to commission a study examining the role and usefulness of the Selective Service.

“I still believe that we need to step back and take a broader look at whether we need it or not before ever get into who is involved,” he said.

But in order to give the full House a chance to vote on the matter, Republican leaders will have to go through a few procedural calisthenics because it could run afoul of the chamber’s rules regarding the cost of legislation.

Last week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that including women in the draft actually lowers government costs by reducing spending on Pell Grants. In order to a receive Pell Grant, a student must register for the Selective Service. CBO projected requiring women to sign up for the draft would save the government money because enough female students would not do so and would therefore be ineligible for a Pell Grant.

It’s against House rules to offer an amendment that would raise the cost of legislation. Hunter’s proposal wouldn’t cost much, $7 million in fiscal 2018 by CBO’s estimate, but it is creating a procedural headache for Thornberry.

“All of that means this is complicated to even have a debate on,” he said. “So I don’t know what’s going to happen.”

Thornberry said the only likely solution is for the Rules Committee finding a procedural workaround.

“They’re going to have to because otherwise, we can’t even have a debate on it, which is crazy,” Thornberry said.

A spokeswoman for the House Rules Committee declined on Monday to comment on Thornberry’s amendment.

Thornberry’s amendment is one of a handful that have been filed to remove or otherwise change the provision dealing with the Selective Service. An amendment from Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-Texas) would strike Hunter’s amendment, while a measure from Rep. Reid Ribble (R-Wisc.) would dispense with the Selective Service entirely. A measure from Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii) would eliminate the federal penalties for failing to register.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

