 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

“Republicans have now spent more than two years and nearly $7 million of taxpayer funds.”

— statement by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), May 8, 2016

In statements and tweets, Democrats accused the House majority of spending nearly $7 million in taxpayer funds for the Select Committee on Benghazi, which is probing the deaths of four Americans, including the U.S. ambassador, during the attacks of Sept. 11, 2012.

Whether someone believes the existence of the committee is worthwhile depends a lot on party affiliation, with Democrats saying the probe is an ill-disguised attack on former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, and Republicans saying it is necessary to learn from the errors of the past.

The Fact Checker takes no position on the politics, but we are interested in whether it is accurate to say Republicans have spent $7 million in funds.

The monthly bills for the Benghazi Committee can be found on two sections of the website of the Committee on House Administration. They are signed by Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), the committee chairman, as is routine.

The committee reports show that about 90 percent of the committee costs relate to personnel. The staff directors for the Republicans and the Democrats each make more than $170,000 a year. Quite a few other staff members make close to that amount, largely because of their expertise.

An additional 5 percent of spending is on equipment, both sides more or less equally.

But as is standard, the minority accounts for about one-third of the expenses.  So far, the committee has not spent all of the funds that were apportioned to it. The numbers work out like this:

2014

Apportioned to Republicans: $2.199 million

Apportioned to Democrats: $1.099 million

2015

Apportioned to Republicans: $3.066 million

Apportioned to Democrats: $1.533 million

2016 

Apportioned to Republicans: $3.066 million

Apportioned to Democrats: $1.533 million

Spending to date

Spent by Republicans: $4.445 million

Spent by Democrats: $2.325 million

Total: $6.77 million

Note: the Democrats have a running tab on the Web that actually shows spending of more than $6.9 million. Democrats acknowledged it’s a little off, saying that it is an estimate based on the previous month’s expenses. Recent staff departures have slowed spending, making the estimate run a bit faster than actual expenses.

The committee is so split along partisan lines that it’s taken The Fact Checker some days to sort through various charges and countercharges.

Democrats allege that Republicans have wasted nearly $30,000 on a “lavish” overseas trip; Republicans say it was for two people who traveled by commercial coach and had simple working lunches on military bases. Republicans claim that the Democrats awarded themselves more than $30,000 in staff bonuses, but Democrats say the number reflects salary adjustments for staff promotions.

Both sides accuse the other of making unreasonable requests or taking steps that have resulted in dragging out the investigation. The list of complaints from both is rather endless, reflecting the high level of acrimony on the committee.

To put the nearly $6.8 million in perspective, the State Department received $6.5 million in reprogrammed funds from Congress in fiscal 2015 and 2016  for a new unit that responds to congressional requests, including inquiries from the Benghazi Committee, according to a State Department official. That figure does not include the efforts of the Freedom of Information Act office and legal and regional officials at the Department to re-digitize Clinton’s 30,000 emails and make them ready for public release.

A Democratic spokesman defended attributing the entire cost of the investigation to the Republicans:

“None of the expenditures of the Committee would be necessary but for Chairman Gowdy’s repeated decisions to delay our work into the election year and continue requesting more and more interviews and documents,” he said.  “Yes, Democrats could walk away, but as we have seen repeatedly, the American people need someone in the room to protect the truth.”

It is too facile for Democrats to pin all of the spending for the Benghazi committee on Republicans. One-third of the spending goes to Democratic staff and expenses, and that should be acknowledged in Democratic statements. Democrats choose to participate in the committee and hire staff, meaning they share in the cost as well.

 



(About our rating scale)

 

Send us facts to check by filling out this form

Check out our 2016 candidates fact-check page

Sign up for The Fact Checker weekly newsletter

How would you rate this claim? (The check mark means you think the statement is true, not that you agree with the rating.)

We need to verify that you are an actual person.

 This is a non-scientific user poll. Results are not statistically valid and cannot be assumed to reflect the views of Washington Post users as a group or the general population. 

politics



fact-checker











Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics



fact-checker





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

