This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/study-of-telemedicine-finds-misdiagnoses-of-skin-problems-1463344200

Researchers posing as patients with skin problems sought help from 16 online telemedicine companies—with unsettling results.

Some of the online doctors misdiagnosed syphilis, herpes and skin cancer, and some prescribed medications without asking key questions about patients’ medical histories or warning of adverse effects, the researchers found. Two sites linked users with doctors located overseas who aren’t licensed to practice where the patients were located, as required by state law.

“The services failed to ask simple, relevant questions of patients about their symptoms, leading them to repeatedly miss important diagnoses,” said  Jack Resneck, a dermatologist with the University of California, San Francisco, and lead author of the study, published online in JAMA Dermatology on Sunday.

  Ateev Mehrotra, an associate professor of health-care policy at Harvard Medical School who wasn’t involved with the current study, said it “identifies a number of egregious quality issues that raise significant concern.” 

He added that studies have identified quality issues with in-person visits as well, and that because many dermatologists don’t accept Medicaid, the online visits, which generally cost $35 to $95, may be all that some patients can afford.

Direct-to-consumer telemedicine services have exploded in recent years, with more than one million virtual medical visits expected this year, according to the American Telemedicine Association, a trade group. Many insurers cover the services and promote them as a convenient and low-cost way for plan members to get care.

But some physician groups are concerned that the services are eroding doctor-patient relationships, lowering the quality of care and further fragmenting the health-care system.

The JAMA Dermatology study involved seven general medicine websites and nine devoted to dermatology issues. Researchers created six fictitious scenarios with skin conditions, downloaded stock photos of them from the Internet and prepared more detailed medical histories for the patients to provide if they were asked.

The online clinicians—who were mostly identified as physicians, with a few nurse practitioners and physician assistants—provided diagnoses in 48 of the 62 completed online visits and prescribed medications in 31 of them; but only 10 of the patients were told about relevant risks or side effects, including possible harm to unborn babies if the patients were pregnant.

Fewer than one-third of the sites allowed users to select their own clinician. Patients were asked the name of their primary-care physician in 13 of the 62 visits, and only six offered to send records of the encounter to an existing doctor.

Where conditions were identifiable by photos alone, the diagnoses were generally correct, the authors noted. All seven clinicians recognized and properly treated stasis dermatitis, an inflammation associated with poor circulation. Eleven of 14 clinicians who viewed photos of nodular melanoma, an aggressive form of skin cancer, told the patient to see a doctor in person, although three assured him it was benign.

The online doctors were less accurate in diagnosing conditions that required seeking information. None of the 12 clinicians who consulted with a young woman whose profile represented inflammatory acne asked about her irregular periods or visible facial hair, so none recognized the condition as polycystic ovarian syndrome, a complex condition that requires hormonal therapies.

Similarly, none of the clinicians asked the young man whose profile depicted secondary syphilis about the sudden onset of the unusual skin plaques or his recent fevers. Seven of eight doctors simply agreed with the patient’s suggestion that he had psoriasis, leaving the severe sexually transmitted disease unchecked and highly contagious.

Seven of nine clinicians misdiagnosed a female patient whose profile indicated a potentially life-threatening condition in which herpes spreads through eczema, as regular eczema. Two prescribed oral prednisone, which can make the condition worse.

The authors noted that they were unable to assess whether doctors seeing the same patients in traditional setting would have performed better. But Dr. Resneck said, “The usual give-and-take that occurs between a physician and a patient wasn’t happening during these electronic consultations. The clinicians weren’t asking basic follow-up questions.”

  Jonathan Linkous, chief executive officer of the American Telemedicine Association, agreed there is a need for quality control in the new and growing field of virtual medical consultations.  The organization began an accreditation program last year to set higher standards; only seven telemedicine companies have been approved to date, although nearly 500 have applied.

Consumers “should be wary of who you go to,” Mr. Linkous said. “Ask about credentials and don’t make the doctor do all the work. If there is more information the doctor should know, be sure to provide it.”

The study cited only two companies by name, First Derm and First Opinion, both of which linked patients with physicians located overseas. The UCSF researchers could find no evidence the doctors were licensed in California, where the patients resided, as required by state law.

Both of the sites displayed disclaimers saying they didn’t provide medical advice or health-care services, although the researchers said they did offer diagnoses and treatment recommendations.

Alexander Borve, CEO of First Derm, said that because patients remain anonymous and the site’s dermatologists comment on their uploaded images anonymously, “there is no doctor-patient relationship.” 

First Opinion couldn’t be reached for comment. 

 Write to Melinda Beck at HealthJournal@wsj.com 

No control half for the study?! Come on that is basic scientific method, what a horrible study.  I would bet money in person doctors are just as bad.

No control half for the study?! Come on that is basic scientific method, what a horrible study.  I would bet money in person doctors are just as bad.

This could have been an informative article if it weren't so misleading.  Since we have no idea how good dermatological diagnoses are in regular practice, these may actually be better results than under the status quo.  This merits full discussion.  Another article in the same issue finds, what that they argue is, reasonable concordance between in-person and tele-visits.  

This could have been an informative article if it weren't so misleading.  Since we have no idea how good dermatological diagnoses are in regular practice, these may actually be better results than under the status quo.  This merits full discussion.  Another article in the same issue finds, what that they argue is, reasonable concordance between in-person and tele-visits.  

Dermaology, the perfect medical practice: patients are never cured and doctors don't get emergency calls on Sunday. 

Dermaology, the perfect medical practice: patients are never cured and doctors don't get emergency calls on Sunday. 

@Bill Wald Except when I get called into the ER on a Sunday night to see a patient with a type of drug rash that has a 20% mortality if not correctly diagnosed or treated.

@Bill Wald Except when I get called into the ER on a Sunday night to see a patient with a type of drug rash that has a 20% mortality if not correctly diagnosed or treated.

Wow!  This is timely.  My wife was suffering from what appeared to be a very bad reaction to something (rash like); turns out after not getting back with Calamine lotion, and other potions she went to the walk in clinic, and was given prednisone, and told it indeed was a bad reaction.  After still suffering, she went back to see her own Dermatologist, after seeing his P.A. and insisting he himself take a look at it, and it was determined to be Shingles. Misdiagnosis happens way too often, she is now being properly treated, and will hopefully return to normal soon. Moral of the story, trust your instincts, and keep searching until it feels right to you as the patient. 

Wow!  This is timely.  My wife was suffering from what appeared to be a very bad reaction to something (rash like); turns out after not getting back with Calamine lotion, and other potions she went to the walk in clinic, and was given prednisone, and told it indeed was a bad reaction.  After still suffering, she went back to see her own Dermatologist, after seeing his P.A. and insisting he himself take a look at it, and it was determined to be Shingles. Misdiagnosis happens way too often, she is now being properly treated, and will hopefully return to normal soon. 



Moral of the story, trust your instincts, and keep searching until it feels right to you as the patient. 

Duh.  

Duh.  

The correct solution is "buyer beware" and the creation of private sector ratings sites for these providers.The wrong solution is a cry for government oversight & regulation...

The correct solution is "buyer beware" and the creation of private sector ratings sites for these providers.



The wrong solution is a cry for government oversight & regulation...

1. Medicaid patients have no copay for hospital, ER, or outpatient visits. It is patients with high ObamaCare deductibles that are more of the target audience.2. Was every female patient of child bearing age asked if she is pregnant before prescribing?3. In offices or ERs, there is at least a basic history and physical done in an electronic record. The record will not close and bill without it.4. How can these phone doctors be covered for malpractice if they are not even licensed? The ones who fail to diagnose syphillis need a good lawsuit.

1. Medicaid patients have no copay for hospital, ER, or outpatient visits. It is patients with high ObamaCare deductibles that are more of the target audience.

2. Was every female patient of child bearing age asked if she is pregnant before prescribing?

3. In offices or ERs, there is at least a basic history and physical done in an electronic record. The record will not close and bill without it.

4. How can these phone doctors be covered for malpractice if they are not even licensed? The ones who fail to diagnose syphillis need a good lawsuit.



But it's cheap and dead people cost so much less to manage.

But it's cheap and dead people cost so much less to manage.

"I have a rash, can I have Percocet or Oxycontin now?"

"I have a rash, can I have Percocet or Oxycontin now?"

@Chris Delatorre For the pain of undiagnosed syphilis or herpes? That is worth something.

@Chris Delatorre 

For the pain of undiagnosed syphilis or herpes? That is worth something.

The doctor-patient relationship can be found in Norman Rockwell paintings and thats about it.Americans dont want the old medical paradigm of their physician dispensing advise or asking personal questions..This article describes medicine as it is practiced today be it telemedicine or the rush 5 minute flash drive by visit at a doc in the box "clinic" (business). Americans walk in to a medical clinic waving their Medicare card as if it were their get out of jail free ticket, expecting everyone to give them a free pass.....fast.We are the sickest country on the planet and it is not due to parasites, mosquitoes or dirty water

The doctor-patient relationship can be found in Norman Rockwell paintings and thats about it.

Americans dont want the old medical paradigm of their physician dispensing advise or asking personal questions.

.

This article describes medicine as it is practiced today be it telemedicine or the rush 5 minute flash drive by visit at a doc in the box "clinic" (business). Americans walk in to a medical clinic waving their Medicare card as if it were their get out of jail free ticket, expecting everyone to give them a free pass.....fast

.

We are the sickest country on the planet and it is not due to parasites, mosquitoes or dirty water

@Jorge Reyes I think you mean Medicaid. Medicare actually has copays for many services.

@Jorge Reyes 

I think you mean Medicaid. Medicare actually has copays for many services.

@Mary Alexander @Jorge Reyes Co-pays are not in proportion to the costs incurred by a long shot.  Not even close!  

@Mary Alexander @Jorge Reyes Co-pays are not in proportion to the costs incurred by a long shot.  Not even close!  

@Jorge Reyes @Mary Alexander That is the point of insurance.  ACA deductibles of $6300 with 43 percent copays are unmanageable for the middle class who pay high premiums, when Medicaid is totally free. 

@Jorge Reyes @Mary Alexander 

That is the point of insurance.  

ACA deductibles of $6300 with 43 percent copays are unmanageable for the middle class who pay high premiums, when Medicaid is totally free. 



I don't understand the thinly veiled bias in this article. John Hopkins Hospital just completed a study recently recording 250,000 deaths per year due to medical errors. That would place medical errors as the third most common form of death right behind heart disease and cancer. It appears that medical errors are common in health care and not just in "telemedicine" offices. 

I don't understand the thinly veiled bias in this article. 



John Hopkins Hospital just completed a study recently recording 250,000 deaths per year due to medical errors. That would place medical errors as the third most common form of death right behind heart disease and cancer. It appears that medical errors are common in health care and not just in "telemedicine" offices. 

@DENNIS VIDMAR @DEAN L OESTREICH This sloppy practice of telemedicine adds a whole new layer of risk for medical errors and malpractice.Congratulations to the millionaires running these profit-centers on compounding an already acute problem.

@DENNIS VIDMAR @DEAN L OESTREICH 

This sloppy practice of telemedicine adds a whole new layer of risk for medical errors and malpractice.

Congratulations to the millionaires running these profit-centers on compounding an already acute problem.

@DEAN L OESTREICH You are absolutely correct in your observation about medical errors in hospitals and other healthcare settings.  The authors of this piece are saying that this relatively anonymous venue for outpatient dermatologic care adds some additional risks for errors of its own.  There is a solid peer reviewed literature in telemedicine which has identified where it seems to work the best and where it may not have much value at all.  Direct to consumer teledermatology is a whole different breed of cat compared to teledermatology which is part of an integrated health care system.  Time (and good rigorous analysis) will tell whether it is of value.

@DEAN L OESTREICH You are absolutely correct in your observation about medical errors in hospitals and other healthcare settings.  The authors of this piece are saying that this relatively anonymous venue for outpatient dermatologic care adds some additional risks for errors of its own.  There is a solid peer reviewed literature in telemedicine which has identified where it seems to work the best and where it may not have much value at all.  Direct to consumer teledermatology is a whole different breed of cat compared to teledermatology which is part of an integrated health care system.  Time (and good rigorous analysis) will tell whether it is of value.

Terrible job of reporting...what would have been the results of testing the same patients at "real doctors"  but we would not want to put them on the spot.  Very biased to the doctors association...must be a major contributor.  Really you did not mention the Theranos...another company that has provided no results for that scam.  Do you support that 8 BILLION PIECE OF GARBAGE Theranos put out there.......another company you are keeping from your article....nice reporting ...I will never get this 15 minutes back

Terrible job of reporting...what would have been the results of testing the same patients at "real doctors"  but we would not want to put them on the spot.  Very biased to the doctors association...must be a major contributor.  Really you did not mention the Theranos...another company that has provided no results for that scam.  Do you support that 8 BILLION PIECE OF GARBAGE Theranos put out there.......another company you are keeping from your article....nice reporting ...I will never get this 15 minutes back

"The doctors noted they were unable to assess whether doctors seeing the same patients in traditional settings would have performed better". This statement is opposite of what the title and the article appears to suggest. All the study really suggests is that diagnosis in this area may be seriously flawed both in the examining room and online. Back to school for both the doctors and the WSJ reporters.

"The doctors noted they were unable to assess whether doctors seeing the same patients in traditional settings would have performed better". This statement is opposite of what the title and the article appears to suggest. All the study really suggests is that diagnosis in this area may be seriously flawed both in the examining room and online. Back to school for both the doctors and the WSJ reporters.

When was the last time a patient asked their physician the name of their medical school, class ranking, scores on their medical board exams, whether they were board certified or board eligible, never mind the last time the physician treated a patient like themselves? Be real. Americans dont want to be in front of any prescribing clinician longer than 30 secs..All Americans want is a prescription to get filled at a drive up pharmacy, have Medicare pay for it and go home to continue the same unhealthy choices they always do..If Amurikuns were truly interested in their health, they would be proactive and employ preventive medicine. Fat chance

When was the last time a patient asked their physician the name of their medical school, class ranking, scores on their medical board exams, whether they were board certified or board eligible, never mind the last time the physician treated a patient like themselves? Be real. Americans dont want to be in front of any prescribing clinician longer than 30 secs.

.

All Americans want is a prescription to get filled at a drive up pharmacy, have Medicare pay for it and go home to continue the same unhealthy choices they always do.

.

If Amurikuns were truly interested in their health, they would be proactive and employ preventive medicine. Fat chance

Actually, we also found in this study that in most of these DTC telemedicine encounters, the telehealth websites didn't even disclose the credentials or licensure of the clinicians who patients were often assigned to without any choice.  That is very different than in-person healthcare encounters -- where patients have some choice of who they are going to see and knowledge of that person's licensure.  Patients have a right to know whether their rash is being cared
for by a board-certified dermatologist, a pain management specialist, or a
nurse practitioner who usually works in an emergency department. 

Actually, we also found in this study that in most of these DTC telemedicine encounters, the telehealth websites didn't even disclose the credentials or licensure of the clinicians who patients were often assigned to without any choice.  That is very different than in-person healthcare encounters -- where patients have some choice of who they are going to see and knowledge of that person's licensure.  

Patients have a right to know whether their rash is being cared
for by a board-certified dermatologist, a pain management specialist, or a
nurse practitioner who usually works in an emergency department. 

@Jack Resneck  I agree that patients have a right to know about a clinician's credentials but how can a patient know if she's being told the truth?

@Jack Resneck  I agree that patients have a right to know about a clinician's credentials but how can a patient know if she's being told the truth?

@Charleen Larson @Jack Resneck Thank you for posing the crucial question to which there is no litmus test answer. Too often, honesty is trumped by the doctor's personal interest but how can you tell? 

@Charleen Larson @Jack Resneck Thank you for posing the crucial question to which there is no litmus test answer. Too often, honesty is trumped by the doctor's personal interest but how can you tell? 

I read the professional article cited in this story.  I am a retired military dermatologist now in civilian practice. Twenty years ago, a few of us "cutting edge" military clinicians pioneered the art and science of telemedicine. We engaged live teledermatology consultation as well as asynchronous (store and forward ) teledermatology.  We published and presented our findings to our civilian counterparts. Now as then, the technology is not the limiting factor. The teledermatologist needs not just good images, but good clinical history from a very well trained primary care provider network  as well as to implement the dermatologists recommendations and to follow up with the patient.  It is a shame that this new generation did not read our work before they began their enterprise.  It seems as if they reinvented the wheel.

I read the professional article cited in this story.  I am a retired military dermatologist now in civilian practice. Twenty years ago, a few of us "cutting edge" military clinicians pioneered the art and science of telemedicine. We engaged live teledermatology consultation as well as asynchronous (store and forward ) teledermatology.  We published and presented our findings to our civilian counterparts. Now as then, the technology is not the limiting factor. The teledermatologist needs not just good images, but good clinical history from a very well trained primary care provider network  as well as to implement the dermatologists recommendations and to follow up with the patient.  It is a shame that this new generation did not read our work before they began their enterprise.  It seems as if they reinvented the wheel.

@DENNIS VIDMAR These telemedicine sites are just obscene money making operations.

@DENNIS VIDMAR 

These telemedicine sites are just obscene money making operations.

@Mary Alexander @DENNIS VIDMAR Some of these are ways to make bucks with little investment.  That being said, I suspect that most of these teledermatologists are initially unaware of the limitations of store/foreward based practice.  The teledermatology pioneers in the military, of which I was one, quickly identified those limitations and tried to find ways to improve our outcomes.   It was of value but not perfect for deployed troops and ships at sea.  Since my retirement from the military, in my office practice, I have 4 patients which were initially seen by a well known store/forward based teledermatology group. Three of these patients were suboptimally managed (understandably) because the teledermatologist did not have a complete medical history and the patient could not ask real time "follow on" questions. A small minority use teledermatology as a vehicle to recruit "live" patients for their own offices. It will be interesting to watch this evolve.

@Mary Alexander @DENNIS VIDMAR Some of these are ways to make bucks with little investment.  That being said, I suspect that most of these teledermatologists are initially unaware of the limitations of store/foreward based practice.  The teledermatology pioneers in the military, of which I was one, quickly identified those limitations and tried to find ways to improve our outcomes.   It was of value but not perfect for deployed troops and ships at sea.  Since my retirement from the military, in my office practice, I have 4 patients which were initially seen by a well known store/forward based teledermatology group. Three of these patients were suboptimally managed (understandably) because the teledermatologist did not have a complete medical history and the patient could not ask real time "follow on" questions. A small minority use teledermatology as a vehicle to recruit "live" patients for their own offices. It will be interesting to watch this evolve.

@DENNIS VIDMAR @Mary Alexander In the military, you had skin in the game, so to speak, as well as accountability, no profit motive, and had back-up at military facilities. You also have your integrity, reputation and career to maintain and be proud of.These sites are nowhere near that standard for quality-control. Plus they can disappear overnight. 

@DENNIS VIDMAR @Mary Alexander 

In the military, you had skin in the game, so to speak, as well as accountability, no profit motive, and had back-up at military facilities. You also have your integrity, reputation and career to maintain and be proud of.

These sites are nowhere near that standard for quality-control. Plus they can disappear overnight. 

@Mary Alexander @DENNIS VIDMAR In my nearly 16 years of practice after a 28 year military career, I have been very disappointed (shocked in fact) by the paucity of integrity within the civilian health care "non system".   Everything is driven by the almighty buck rather than value.  Providers are rewarded for "doing" (i.e. piecework, numbers of visits, number of procedures etc.) and not for the value provided for our patients.  Alas, the subject of this article, this direct cash based "fee for service" teledermatology by entrepreneurs, is emblematic of a much larger problem well beyond the scope of this article. In oh so many ways, my "freedom" to practice good medicine was larger in military practice than in my recent years as a civilian.

@Mary Alexander @DENNIS VIDMAR In my nearly 16 years of practice after a 28 year military career, I have been very disappointed (shocked in fact) by the paucity of integrity within the civilian health care "non system".   Everything is driven by the almighty buck rather than value.  Providers are rewarded for "doing" (i.e. piecework, numbers of visits, number of procedures etc.) and not for the value provided for our patients.  Alas, the subject of this article, this direct cash based "fee for service" teledermatology by entrepreneurs, is emblematic of a much larger problem well beyond the scope of this article. In oh so many ways, my "freedom" to practice good medicine was larger in military practice than in my recent years as a civilian.

Canada Wildfire Raises Safety Issues Close to Home

The Tea Party Eyes Donald Trump—Warily

Fears of Facebook Bias Seem to Be Overblown

How Women Took Over the World of Running

Chiefless Company Rakes In More Than $100 Million

Lawmakers Try New Tactic to Ease Rules for Private-Equity Funds

A Run on the Beach Only Looks Easy

How Women Are Changing Racing


Subscribe NowSign In


WSJ Membership

Customer Service

Tools & Features

Ads

More

Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

