

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Cruz told Trump to "leave Heidi the hell alone." And Megyn Kelly weighed in, too.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

As did Lincoln, Roosevelt and Reagan in their campaigns, Donald Trump took part this week in the very presidential tradition of threatening a fellow candidate’s wife on Twitter.*

After a super PAC unrelated to Cruz published an ad using a suggestive photo of Trump’s wife, Melania, from GQ, Trump laid the blame on Cruz anyway.

“Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G.Q. shoot in his ad,” Trump tweeted Tuesday. “Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!”

While it remains unclear what “beans” Trump was referring to, he posted an image on his Twitter account Wednesday another user had tweeted insulting the appearance of Cruz’s wife, Heidi Cruz:

"@Don_Vito_08: "A picture is worth a thousand words" @realDonaldTrump#LyingTed#NeverCruz@MELANIATRUMPpic.twitter.com/5bvVEwMVF8"

Cruz responded shortly afterward. He did not insult Trump’s wife in return:

Donald, real men don't attack women. Your wife is lovely, and Heidi is the love of my life.  https://t.co/pprXhIMzUT

Later, on Thursday, Cruz called Trump "a sniveling coward" and told him to "leave Heidi the hell alone."

Ted Cruz: 'Donald, you're a sniveling coward and leave Heidi alone.' pic.twitter.com/0V3Xd8QOGT

That morning, Cruz’s campaign denounced the ad depicting Trump’s wife and stressed it had no affiliation with the super PAC Make America Awesome that created it.

“This is a sad state of affairs when we have someone who is running for president who makes derogatory and insulting comments, repeatedly, against women,” Alice Stewart, a Cruz spokeswoman, said on CNN.

“We’ve had Carly Fiorina. We’ve had Megyn Kelly. And now, Heidi Cruz. This is not just a whim. This is a pattern.”

Kelly, a Fox News host, weighted in on Trump's tweet with a one-word response: "Seriously?"

Seriously?  https://t.co/pPBJkKDUwG

After Trump’s initial tweet threatening his wife, Cruz called Trump a classless coward, and said his wife, Heidi Cruz, was out of Trump’s league.

On Thursday, reporters asked Cruz whether he would still support Trump should the billionaire become the Republican nominee.

"I'm going to beat him," Cruz said, according to CNN. "Donald Trump will not be the nominee."

* Upon further research, USA TODAY found no other candidates have threatened a fellow candidates’ wife on the social networking site Twitter.

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Will these attacks knock out Trump? His rivals hope so

