We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookies policies to find out more.

The President of Venezuela has urged women to stop using hairdryers and offered alternative styling tips as the country’s energy crisis continues.

Nicolas Maduro has announced a decree giving state employees Fridays off for two months as part of measures to offset a crippling electricity shortage.

He urged his compatriots to increase other efforts to save power, including cutting appliance use and raising the temperature on air conditioning units.

Recommending that women reduce hairdryer use to “special occasions”, Mr Maduro added: “I always think a woman looks better when she just runs her fingers through her hair and lets it dry naturally. It's just an idea I have."

He also called on Venezuelans to make small changes to their routines, including embracing the tropical heat and hanging clothes out to dry instead of using tumble dryers. 

Not everyone welcomed the advice, with one Caracas resident telling Al Jazeera: "If the President thinks that not blowdrying our hair is going to help, then the problem is far worse than we thought."

The government has declared Fridays a non-working day for the public sector for the next 60 days as the economic and energy crisis combine to cause food shortages and long supermarket queues.

Around 70 per cent of Venezuela’s electricity comes from a hydroelectric plant at the Guri Dam, which holds back the Caroni River in the south-eastern state of Bolivar. 

Officials have been warning for weeks that the water level behind it has fallen to near its minimum operating level, meaning it may soon have to be shut down entirely.

Mr Maduro’s socialist administration blames the crisis on a drought caused by the El Nino weather phenomenon and acts of sabotage by its opponents, but experts say rationing could have been prevented by investment in maintenance and in the construction of thermoelectric plants. 

The President’s emergency measures sparked ridicule from critics, who have predicted an acute recession.

"Just because Maduro doesn't work Monday to Friday, Saturday or Sunday, doesn't mean we Venezuelans are like that,“ said opposition politician Maria Corina Machado. 

"What we want is to keep working, and for you, Maduro, to go."

His rambling and sometimes expletive-laden late-night speeches have irked many Venezuelans struggling to make ends meet and desperate for a solution to the crisis.

The South American nation has grappled with blackouts for years, including one that took Mr Maduro himself by surprise as he delivered a national address on live television. 

Caracas occasionally shuts down because of citywide losses of power and some rural areas are living mostly in the dark. 

Northern Lights seen near the town of Salekhard, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug, Russia

A Russian army sapper works in the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra

Newly-released political student protester and family members cry after being reunited in Tharrawaddy town, Bago Region. A Myanmar court in nearby Tharrawaddy town freed dozens of jailed students, in the first wave of detainee releases after Aung San Suu Kyi pledged that the release of activists and political prisoners would be the first priority of her new government

Kashmiri Muslim women mourn during the funeral of Waseem Ahmad Malla, a suspected militant, in Pehlipora village in Shopian district in south Kashmir. Two suspected militants, one of whom was Malla, were killed during a gunbattle with Indian security forces in Shopian 

Ethnic Armenian soldiers stand next to a cannon at artillery positions near the Nagorno-Karabakh's town of Martuni. Armenia’s president has warned an outbreak of fighting in the region could lead to full-scale war, as a third day of fighting between Azerbaijan and Armenian-backed separatists has seen soldiers killed on both sides, in the most intense violence in the area in years

Students from a martial art school attends a training session as they perform Shaolin Kung Fu and other practices in Dengfeng, Henan Province, China

A pro-police supporter yells while protesters charged with rioting during the Mong Kok protests arrive to court in Hong Kong. Protesters appeared in court again over rioting after officials tried to clear illegal street hawkers from the busy commercial neighbourhood of Mong Kok on Lunar New Year

A Swiss guard stands guard at the Vatican 

A man shoulders a coffin with the remains of a loved one who was slain more than two decades ago by Shining Path rebels, as he walks to the cemetery for a group burial service, in Ccano, a village in the Huanta area of Ayachcuo department, Peru. Presidential candidate Keiko Fujimori's base of support is in places like Ccano, where promises to build roads, clinics and schools recall her agronomist father's own legacy of delivering aid to the long-overlooked countryside

A Bangladeshi woman collects arsenic-tainted water from a tube-well in Khirdasdi village, outskirts of Dhaka, Bangladesh. A new report estimates that some 20 million Bangladeshis are still being poisoned by arsenic-tainted groundwater drawn from government wells. Arsenic is a naturally occurring and toxic element found in the soil and groundwater of some areas of the world, including vast delta regions like in eastern India and Bangladesh, where rivers empty into the Bay of Bengal

A Bahraini woman sits watching flags during the funeral of Ali Abdulghani, 17, whose family says died of injuries suffered in a police chase, in the Shiite village of Shahrakkan, south of Manama

A woman walks in a yard where tea leaves are dried at a tea company in Dening, Fujian Province, China

A child sits in a tent at dusk at the makeshift camp at the Greek-Macedonian border village of Idomeni. A plan to send back refugees from Greece to Turkey sparked demonstrations by local residents in both countries days before the deal brokered by the European Union is set to be implemented

Pink flamingos stand on the mud flats at the Ras al-Khor Wildlife Sanctuary with the Dubai skyline in the background, on the outskirts of the city

A new born albinos wallaby is pictured its mother's pouch at the zoo of the French eastern city of Amneville

Anti-riot police officers arrest a man during clashes within a demonstration of high school students protesting against the government's planned labour reform,  in Paris. The Socialist government is desperate to push through reforms to France's controversial labour laws, billed as a last-gasp attempt to boost the flailing economy before next year's presidential election

Confiscated ivory is moved to secure containers from an ivory stock room at the Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS) headquarters in Nairobi. Kenya will burn approximately 105 tonnes of confiscated ivory, almost all of the country's total stockpile. Several African heads of state, conservation experts, high-profile philanthropists and celebrities are slated to be present at the event which they hope will send a strong anti-poaching message

A Turkish police officer escorts a deported refugee from a small Turkish ferry carrying refugees who are deported to Turkey as they arrive at the port of Dikili district in Izmir. Refugees return from Greece to Turkey begun under the terms of an EU deal that has worried aid groups, as Athens struggles to manage the overload of desperate people on its soil

Acrobats perform during a rally organised during the visit of Sudanese president in the town of Zalingei, capital of Central Darfur state.Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir started a tour of Darfur ahead of a referendum on whether to keep the conflict-torn western area as five states or to create one united region

A man takes part in the International Fireworks Fair in Indaparapeo municipality, in Michoacan State, Mexico

People fight with pillows during World Pillow Fight Day in front of the City Hall in Copenhagen, Denmark

Ethnic Chinese Malaysians visit the graves of their ancestors at a cemetery on the eve of the annual 'Qingming' festival in Kuala Lumpur. Qingming, also known as Tomb-Sweeping Day, is an annual Chinese festival to commemorate the dead. Families visit and clean the graves of their ancestors, burning incence, paper money and presenting offerings such as food, tea, wine and joss paper accessories

Aerial view taken with a drone of moored "trajineras" - traditional flat-bottomed river boat- at Xochimilco natural reserve in Mexico City. Xochimilco canals are one of the places most visited by local and foreign tourists, to go along the water, eat traditional food and enjoy Mariachi music

A member of Iraqi government forces inspects a burnt Isis vehicle, after they retook an area from its jihadists in the village of Al-Mamoura, near Hit, a Euphrates Valley town located about 145 kilometres west of Baghdad in the western province of Anbar

Flames erupt from an apartment building following an explosion that occurred in rue de Berite in Paris. A gas explosion caused minor injuries to five people, according to police sources

Tourists visit a tulip field in Zhumadian in China

A rescued olive ridley sea turtle is wheeled into the hyperbaric chamber by James Holm, medical director at the Center for Hyperbaric Medicine, and Seattle Aquarium veterinarian Lesanna Lahner

Supporters of Brazil's Workers' Party (PT) demonstrate in support of President Dilma Rousseff and former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Rio de Janeiro. Brazil's Supreme Court removed a politically explosive case against former president Luiz Lula Inacio da Silva from a crusading corruption judge. Judges voted to put Lula's case under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and not federal Judge Sergio Moro. Lula is accused of money laundering and concealing property in connection with a huge probe led by Moro into state oil company Petrobras

Indian rescue workers and volunteers try to free people trapped under the wreckage of a collapsed fly-over bridge in Kolkata. At least 20 people were killed and dozens more injured when a flyover collapsed in a busy Indian city, as emergency workers battled to rescue people trapped under the rubble

A man is seen trapped amid the debris of an under-construction flyover after it collapsed in Kolkata

Mr Maduro gave workers a full week off in March to save electricity, and cut the hours of more than 100 shopping centres across the country in the previous month. 

Together with other measures, he hopes to reduce electricity consumption by at least 20 per cent.

His predecessor, Hugo Chavez, promised to solve the problem in 2010, but little has improved. 

Other Latin American countries are also grappling with the drought, though still working normal weeks. 

Juan Manuel Santo, the President of Colombia, has been urging citizens to cut back on power consumption to avoid rationing, while the Panama Canal is imposing restrictions on ships as it struggles with low water levels. 

Additional reporting by AP and Reuters

