WASHINGTON House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan said on Wednesday that he has raised $17.2 million in congressional campaign contributions during the first three months of 2016 through a network of political action committees organized to help House Republicans in the November election.

The announcement came a day after Ryan strongly rejected any notion that he could become this year's Republican presidential nominee. It underscored his role in helping fellow Republicans as he works to win agreement on a budget resolution and to shape his caucus into an effective mouthpiece for Republican social and fiscal policy.

The first-quarter fundraising allowed the Wisconsin congressman to transfer $11 million to the National Republican Congressional Committee during the period, including a monthly NRCC record of $6.3 million in March, according to Ryan's political office.  

The figures also provide new evidence of Ryan's fundraising prowess, which has shown signs of surpassing the performance of his predecessor, Ohio Republican John Boehner, by some measures. 

All told, Ryan has now raised $23.5 million as speaker, through a network that includes his Team Ryan joint fundraising committee, his Ryan for Congress campaign committee and his Prosperity Action political action committee, his staff said. 



 (Reporting by David Morgan; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)

Our top photos from the last 24 hours.  Slideshow  

Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence

Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.

NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.

