

  (AP Photo / Cliff Owen, File)

A Clinton vs. Trump campaign in the fall would be a battle of the negatives, Frank Rich says—and Hillary’s are dangerously high.					
Start Making Sense is hosted by Jon Wiener and co-produced by the Los Angeles Review of Books.

Plus: Hillary and Haiti—a long relationship, and a revealing one. Amy Wilentz comments. Read Chelsea Clinton’s once-secret memo about the Clinton Foundation’s failings in Haiti here.		
And we speak with Viet Nguyen—his novel The Sympathizer just won the Pulitzer Prize.  It begins in Saigon on the last day of the Vietnam war, and features a Viet Cong spy inside the Saigon army.
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Start Making Sense is hosted by Jon Wiener and co-produced by the Los Angeles Review of Books.

Plus: Hillary and Haiti—a long relationship, and a revealing one. Amy Wilentz comments. Read Chelsea Clinton’s once-secret memo about the Clinton Foundation’s failings in Haiti here.		
And we speak with Viet Nguyen—his novel The Sympathizer just won the Pulitzer Prize.  It begins in Saigon on the last day of the Vietnam war, and features a Viet Cong spy inside the Saigon army.
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


And we speak with Viet Nguyen—his novel The Sympathizer just won the Pulitzer Prize.  It begins in Saigon on the last day of the Vietnam war, and features a Viet Cong spy inside the Saigon army.
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


 Start Making Sense
Twitter
 Start Making Sense is The Nation’s podcast, featuring lively conversations with the writers, activists, and artists who shape the week in news, hosted by Jon Wiener. Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.

 Jon Wiener
Twitter
 Jon Wiener is a contributing editor of The Nation.

To submit a correction for our consideration, click here. 

For Reprints and Permissions, click here.

In order to comment, you must be logged in as a paid subscriber.  Click here to log in or subscribe.

HRC&apos;s lead of 200 or so delegates is not insurmountable given that 1668 delegates have yet to be selected.  Yes, 1668.  Give the rest of the country a chance to have their say before you name our nominee.  Yes, HRC would lose to Trump in the fall.  That&apos;s why we have to fight to nominate Bernie Sanders.  We have a real choice this time: a man of the people who will answer only to his voters, or a woman of the frackers, hedge fund managers and guns lobbyists.  #ReleaseTheTranscripts

I can&apos;t believe the comments ignore or almost ignore Haiti.  I am horrified by what I have learned here about the Clintons&apos; work there.

I am amazed that The Nation has a headline that refers to Hillary Clinton as "Hillary" and to Donald Trump as "Trump". Sexism, underhanded or otherwise. Don&apos;t do that.

There is only one Trump. There are multiple Clintons...3, in fact. Moreover, how is using one&apos;s first name derogatory compared to using their last name? If anything (and there is no anything here), the reverse case would make more sense.

Every time someone makes a baseless claim of sexism, they undermine the real sexism that is quite pervasive. There is no evidence or substance to your claim. I believe you owe the author an apology.

No matter what they may say about HRC. she will win the Presidency in November. Forget about Republicans, they are an American political disgrace!!. They don&apos;t deserve to be in public service, they have betrayed us over and over and some of us keep voting for them, a difficult reality to understand in our political system.

Just because the Republicans are wrong or even demonic, in no way makes them weak.  Better for the Dems to run scared and work as if their lives depend on winning.

Reading many of the messages in this thread is like reading the comments section in a conservative newspaper and covers much of the same adolescent, name-calling, and dismissive ground that one finds in those publications.  Why don&apos;t we try to elevate the discussion and talk about the real issues that distinguish Bernie and Hillary, or either of them from Donald Trump?  They are substantive, and we are smarter than these comments would indicate.

Here are two quotes from an article in today&apos;s New York Times:

"For all their bluster about bombing the Islamic State into oblivion, neither Donald J. Trump nor Senator Ted Cruz of Texas have demonstrated anywhere near the appetite for military engagement abroad that Clinton
has."

"Unexpectedly, in the bombastic, testosterone-fueled presidential election of 2016, Hillary Clinton is the last true hawk left in the race."

w.nytimes.com/2016/04/24/magazine/how-hillary-clinton-became-a-hawk.html hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&clickSource=story-heading&module=first-column-region&region=top-news&WT.nav=top-news


funny, how they  decided to share this article with us today. after once again urging new yorkers to vote for her on Tuesday.

Amen!

I&apos;d hate to have either of them know the launch codes .

I have been saying this for months.  The proud and powerful super delegates and the DLC (Democratic Leadership Conference, the morally corrupted and powerful elite leaders who have decided to "steer" the party "their way") has been destroying the chances for party success in the Autumn, by opposing Sanders, as if he were of an obscure opposing party, running against the Democrats.  This split the party between politically active grass roots Democrats vs. the rich and powerful Democratic party elites, who want things "their way."  and will stop at nothing.  They&apos;ve been grooming "the first woman president" Hillary Clinton, for years.  Republican have been more aware of this more than ordinary Democrats (it&apos;s their job, as the opposition) while we proud Democrats were in denial of how negligent and indifferent (maybe naïve?) "the first interracial  president" can be, on hawkish issues, corporate hegemony, etc.

Closed door speaker engagements to the rich and powerful, shifting triangulation  to match tit for tat Bernie jabs, accolades for her friend/mentor Kissinger, only a zombie Democrat could give her vote to Hillary.  Strike down neoliberal, corporate democracy..... vote Bernie.

If any fool really believes Hillary Clinton could lose to Donald Trump, maybe they should go over to Oddschecker (http://www.oddschecker.com/politics/us-politics/us-presidential-election-2016/winner), where they can cash in on their insight at up to 9 to 2 odds.  Trump will become our next president on the day that Wyoming gets more electoral votes than California.

Nope, not true!  Trump will crucify her bringing everyone of her lies out into the open including her husband&apos;s.  I suspect that given this choice many Independents and Dems will not vote.

Seems I remember hearing something similar when that republican hero, G W Bush ran.  Fact is the Donald could easily win come November.  Hillary, rightly or wrongly fires up phony conservatives like no other so they will turn out in mass.  Hillary on the other hand turns off a lot of people due to her lack of judgment and apparent lack of openness.

One word: "TURNOUT"

Yea and who is the only person to get more than 10 million votes in the primary election. Hillary. Why in the world does anyone think it&apos;s a good idea to run the guy who is behind by almost 3 million votes? Some revolution that begins by overturning the will of the "People"-the Bernie campaign is devolving into irrelevancy.

Yes the most thoroughly corrupt candidate has the most votes,  we all fear that such a damaged human being Trump would occupy the white house, Hillary is very vulnerable candidate so many reasons too numerous to list here. Hillary will not generate down ballot fervor that is needed to win the senate and other candidate nation wide. The opposition will have no scruples, they will not be polite as Sanders was when he said Hillary   was distorting his record and was not telling the truth  they will call her an outright liar and have thee ammunition to prove it.  Sanders or Hillary whomever gets the most pledged delegates should be the nominee as those votes come from the people not super delegates

People don&apos;t remember that Hillary won more popular votes than Obama in &apos;08, but he won more pledged delegates. And now HRC has way more popular votes AND has earned a lot more pledged  delegates than BS. She also beats Trump in popular vote totals. The faldoral written here at "The Nation is fatuous and disingenuous. They&apos;re merely boosters for Bernie. It&apos;s almost like they WANT a Trump presidency to torch the country, ala Susan Sarandon. But that makes sense, a lot of hard lefties are arsonists and have authoritarian tendencies just like the hard right. And they&apos;re also priviledged people who could afford a Trump presidency. Unfortunately, most people really can&apos;t afford for that scenario to play out. I wonder if The Nation will ever write about the huge negatives that Bernie has, and believe me, that well hasn&apos;t been tapped near enough, but it would be. It&apos;d be slaughter for Bernie. No two ways about it.

I recommend that you read a different source than the Nation.  Let me guess?  You are over 60 !

Let me guess:  you still have to wait nine years or more before you can touch your trust fund.

New York had the 2nd lowest ratio of voter turnout so far.  Vast numbers of independents were kept from voting for Bernie because of New York voting laws.  10 million votes is a joke and shows that the U.S. should have voting holidays or even require citizens to vote.  That she only has 3 million more votes despite the fact the Establishment press and party have relentlessly declared her the nominee is amazing.  And the more you and your ilk insult Sanders supporters, the less likely your candidate will be elected.  Thanks for strengthening my resolve to never vote for your candidate.  And spare me the, "You would have Trump elected" argument.  I am not a Democrat and have no obligation to vote for a lousy candidate put forth by the Democrats.  If the Republicans take the White House, the Democrats have only themselves to blame for shoving Clinton down everyone&apos;s throat.  Her flipp-flopping centrist policies are choking me.  Watch her declare TPP fixed with some minor revision.  Watch her approve Keystone for some political compromise that is necessary.  Watch the Banksters be put in positions of power.  The fact that Larry Summers in an advisor is enough of a reason to vote against her.  he failed to see the financial crisis of 2008 come, reassured policy makers derivatives were safe, and ridiculed those who did present papers explaining the coming crisis.  Hillary is awful and can dupe a lot of people.

You got that right!  I will probably vote Green Party!  This deal is rigged and has been since Billary made a back room deal with Obams before she conceded.

You and your sheltered, childish mob have no idea of the catastrophic results that can follow a bad decision.

Will our country end?  Because that has been the "catastrophic result" that has followed so many of Hillary&apos;s "bad decisions."  Your comment would be read with incalculable irony by any Libyan, Syrian, Iraqi, Haitian, Honduran, or Ukrainian.

“AN INDISPENSABLE VOICE IN OUR POLITICAL DIALOGUE.”


— ELIZABETH WARREN


Stay connected with everything Nation by signing up for our free daily newsletter. 

Copyright (c) 2016 The Nation Company LLC

