WASHINGTON The Supreme Court on Wednesday appeared poised to throw out the corruption convictions of former Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell involving $177,000 in gifts and sweetheart loans from a businessman seeking to promote a dietary supplement.

During the one-hour argument, several of the eight justices signaled that McDonnell's action in accepting the gifts and loans from Virginia businessman Jonnie Williams did not constitute a criminal act.

Conservative Chief Justice John Roberts went further, suggesting the statutes under which McDonnell was convicted could be so broad as to be unconstitutionally vague.

Liberal and conservative justices alike raised concerns about the Justice Department's broad interpretation of U.S. bribery law, with liberal Stephen Breyer one of the most outspoken. He described as "dangerous" the "enormous power over elected officials" that federal prosecutors would hold if the court endorsed the Justice Department's position.

A ruling is due by the end of June. On a dreary, rainy day in Washington, McDonnell arrived at the white marble courthouse ahead of the arguments.

A judge sentenced McDonnell, a 61-year-old former Republican Party rising star, to two years behind bars, but the Supreme Court last year said he would not have to report to prison while his appeals were ongoing.

McDonnell's lawyers contend the former governor's conduct did not constitute "official action" in exchange for a thing of value, as required for conviction under federal bribery law.

The actions in question "were limited to routine political courtesies: arranging meetings, asking questions and attending events," the lawyers wrote in court papers.

His lawyers wrote that a ruling against McDonnell, who served as governor from 2010 to 2014, would "upend the political process" by transforming ordinary interactions between a politician and political donors into criminal acts.

McDonnell, a former rising star in the Republican Party, and his wife, Maureen, were convicted in 2014.

Prosecutors during the trial described the luxurious lifestyle the McDonnells lived thanks to Williams including vacations, designer clothing and shoes, a $6,500 Rolex watch, $15,000 for their daughter’s wedding, golf outings and more.

After a trial that laid bare rifts in his marriage, McDonnell was convicted of 11 corruption counts including conspiracy, bribery and extortion for taking the gifts and loans in exchange for promoting a dietary supplement called Anatabloc made by Williams' company Star Scientific.

McDonnell's wife was found guilty of nine criminal counts and received a one-year sentence.

U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the federal government's lawyer before the high court, said in court papers the convictions are valid because McDonnell took the money "in exchange for agreeing to use the power of his office to help his benefactor."

Federal prosecutors have used the vaguely written "honest services" fraud statute, one of the laws McDonnell was convicted of violating, against several high-profile government and business officials accused of wrongdoing. They included former Democratic Alabama Governor Donald Siegelman, convicted in 2006. 

Supreme Court decisions in 2010 involving former Enron Corp executive Jeffrey Skilling and media baron Conrad Black narrowed the scope of the law to just bribes and kickbacks.

The Richmond-based 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld McDonnell's conviction in July 2015, and he subsequently appealed to the Supreme Court.

If the Supreme Court, shorthanded since the Feb. 13 death of Justice Antonin Scalia, is split 4-4 in McDonnell's appeal, that would leave intact the lower-court's ruling upholding his conviction.



 (Reporting by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Will Dunham)

Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence

News and Media Division of Thomson Reuters

Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.

NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.

