We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookies policies to find out more.

A sexually transmitted yeast infection has been linked to schizophrenia in men and also appears to damage the memory of mentally ill women, according to new research.

The Candida albicans fungus is usually present in the human digestive tract, but if it grows to much it can cause burning, itching, thrush in infants, and a genital infection in adults.

The study found 26 per cent of 261 men with schizophrenia were producing immune-system antibodies designed to fight a Candida infection, compared to 14 per cent of those without the condition.

And, while there was no similar pattern in women, those with schizophrenia and the highest Candida antibody levels performed significantly worse in tests of their memory.

Professor Emily Severance, of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, stressed while they had found a link between the yeast infection and mental illness, it was “far too early to single out Candida infection as a cause of mental illness or vice versa”.

“However, most Candida infections can be treated in their early stages, and clinicians should make it a point to look out for these infections in their patients with mental illness,” she added.

15 per cent of people who caught an STI said they got it after having sex at a friend's house

REX/c.Columbia/Everett

13 per cent of Britons who caugh STIs said they contracted them after getting frisky on campus

Rex

11 per cent caught an STI at a strip club

AFP/Getty

10 per cent of people caught an STI after having sex at home

Rex 

8 per cent of people who had sex in nightclubs caught an STI

Getty Images

8 per cent of people got diagnosed with an STI after sex on the beach

Rex Features

7 per cent said 'screw you' to office politics and had sex in their/someone else's workplace... then caught an STI

YouTube

6 per cent caught an STI after having sex in a swimming pool

Getty/EyesWideOpen / Contributor

6 per cent of Britons probably regret getting their freak on out of doors after they found out they'd caught an STI

 Ulrich Baumgarten via Getty Images

The back row at the cinema is clearly still a popular hook up spot: 5 per cent of people caught an STI here

Getty Images 

4 per cent got an STI after getting frisky on public transport

YouTube

“Although we cannot demonstrate a direct link between Candida infection and physiological brain processes, our data show that some factor associated with Candida infection, and possibly the organism itself, plays a role in affecting the memory of women with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and this is an avenue that needs to be further explored. 

“Because Candida is a natural component of the human body microbiome, yeast overgrowth or infection in the digestive tract, for example, may disrupt the gut-brain axis. 

“This disruption in conjunction with an abnormally functioning immune system could collectively disturb those brain processes that are important for memory.”

Professor Severance added Candida infections can be avoided by reducing sugar consumption, avoiding unnecessary antibiotics and maintaining good hygiene. Normally Candida is controlled by friendly bacteria in the body and the immune system.

The researchers, who published a paper on their work in the journal NPJ-Schizophrenia, now plan to look into whether there is a cause-and-effect relationship between Candida infections and memory problems.

Last year, a separate study published in Nature Communications suggested anxiety and depression could be linked to bacteria in the intestines.

