 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

The Internal Revenue Service is hiring up to 700 new employees to do audits and go after delinquent taxpayers in an effort to turn around years of what the agency has acknowledged is lax enforcement.

“When you look at the IRS overall, every dollar invested in us returns at least $4 to the Treasury,” Commissioner John Koskinen told his employees in a memo Tuesday. “The numbers are even higher when it involves enforcement.”

He called the hiring spree “our first significant enforcement hiring in more than five years.”

[In Dallas, the IRS says it can’t chase tax cheats who owe less than $1 million ]

“While adding 600 to 700 new enforcement hires will not replace those who have left, it will help fill key gaps in our enforcement workforce created by years of attrition,” said the memo, first reported by the Wall Street Journal.

After five years of massive budget cuts prompted by congressional Republicans, the agency’s enforcement ranks have been drastically whittled down, officials say. As of 2015 the IRS had absorbed a 15 percent reduction in the number of revenue officers, the employees who put liens on delinquent taxpayers’ property and knock on their doors to get them to pay up. Revenue agents, who conduct audits of individuals and businesses, were down 16 percent.

Congress gave the IRS an extra $290 million this year. But that money was earmarked for customer service and cyber security improvements to beef up the agency’s fight against identity theft.

[A standard dejection in the IRS help line]

The money for the enforcement hires will be freed up by retirements, attrition and budget “efficiencies,” although Koskinen was not specific.

The first group of job openings will be announced in a few weeks, he wrote, and will work in the department that oversees self-employed taxpayers and small businesses. Hundreds of higher-level enforcement jobs will be filled later this year.

Read more:

The IRS hung up on taxpayers 8.8 million times this year

IRS: We are still chasing tax cheats

How the breach of IRS tax returns is part of a much bigger problem for taxpayers

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

