

 (AP Photo / Carlos Osorio)

Trump says he’ll fight for jobs against NAFTA-type trade deals, and he doesn’t take money from Wall Street. Is that enough to win some of Bernie Sanders’s supporters to his side? John Nichols weighs in on this week’s primary results.		
Plus: The Prince of Sex: Richard Kim explains why Prince is a gay icon today—despite the artist’s lack of support for the gay movement.		
Also: Challenging “Political Correctness” is a favorite theme of Donald Trump—but what exactly does that mean? Laila Lalami explains.		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Plus: The Prince of Sex: Richard Kim explains why Prince is a gay icon today—despite the artist’s lack of support for the gay movement.		
Also: Challenging “Political Correctness” is a favorite theme of Donald Trump—but what exactly does that mean? Laila Lalami explains.		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Also: Challenging “Political Correctness” is a favorite theme of Donald Trump—but what exactly does that mean? Laila Lalami explains.		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


 Start Making Sense
Twitter
 Start Making Sense is The Nation’s podcast, featuring lively conversations with the writers, activists, and artists who shape the week in news, hosted by Jon Wiener. Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.

 Jon Wiener
Twitter
 Jon Wiener is a contributing editor of The Nation.

To submit a correction for our consideration, click here. 

For Reprints and Permissions, click here.

In order to comment, you must be logged in as a paid subscriber.  Click here to log in or subscribe.

The answer is YES!   Bernie and Trump would kill Obama&apos;s outrageously destructive TPP/TTIP/TiSA "trade agreement" initiatives, but Hillary only says that she "opposes the TPP in its present form" which appears to mean that she will make a few minor changes and then push the TPP through Congress next year with the support of "the best politicians money can buy."  If that happens, the US Government (i.e. US taxpayers) will be deluged with newly authorized lawsuits by multinational corporations and investors (in corporately run international tribunals) for hundred-millions or billions of taxpayer dollars for alleged "loses of expected future profits" attributable to laws passed by any of our three levels of government.   They will force all three levels of our government to repeal their labor protecting, environment protecting, health  protecting, and social safety net laws and regulations, and essentially TRASH the United States Constitution and "We the People" for the financial gain of the already wealthy.  

So yes, for very good reasons, if Hillary becomes the Democratic nominee for President, and Obama&apos;s Trade Promotion Authority (fast track) legislation isn&apos;t REPEALED by this November, MANY MILLIONS of Bernie supporters will vote for the Green Party, Donald Trump, or not vote at all!

Trump (and most republicans) use "politically correct" as an euphemism for "liberal ideas". Who wants to be called a racist, a bigot, a homophobe, a misogynist? So, being "not politically correct" sounds much better, doesn&apos;t it?

Yet another false choice in a headline in The Nation. Does The Nation think its readers are no different than those of the HuffPo, yielding to every bit of clickbait your organization can garner? First, despite a rather (non?) endorsement of Bernie, The Nation releases an onslaught of commentaries by older white women for why they are supporting Hillary (which are no different than a slew of other similar articles in the New Yorker, NYT, New York Magazine, The Guardian US, Mother Jones, The Washington Post...).  After all of these "but she&apos;s a woman & I&apos;m a woman & I want to vote for one for president before I die" articles, the presumed Plan B if Bernie isn&apos;t the nominee should then be to vote for Trump?  There is another woman in the race, Jill Stein, who actually is progressive & not a war criminal.  The fact that The Nation has never dedicated a single article to her (or any other third party candidate for that matter) and only mentioned her once or twice in all of the pieces on the election over the past year epitomizes how The Nation has betrayed its left-leaning past & has become just another liberal establishment mouthpiece, albeit with a bit more factual information than the previously-mentioned publications.

Do Bernie supporters actually want to stop the TPP?   Do Bernie supporters actually want to stop the TTIP and TiSA?  Do Bernie supporters actually want to stop overthrowing governments in the Middle East and trying to provoke Russia into [if we&apos;re lucky] the Cold War 2.0?  Do Bernie supporters actually want to root out the Neocons instead of reinstalling them?  Do Bernie supporters actually want to fight public corruption and elect someone who isn&apos;t a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wall Street, Wal-Mart, and Monsanto?  Do Bernie supporters actually prefer someone who is hated by: (1) the Republican establishment; (2) the Democratic establishment; (3) Wall Street; (4) the Military-Industrial Complex; (5) the Neoliberals; (6) the Neocons; and (7) everyone else who has sucked the marrow out of the country&apos;s bones for the last 30 years?

Well, you can try to spin that any way you want, but for this Sanders supporter, I am actually considering pulling that lever for T Rump, while holding my nose of course.  But that is because the Democratic candidate that the party wants us to vote for is more Repugnant to me than Donald Trump.  At least Trump isn&apos;t a serial liar - we know what he is and it&apos;s sick and ugly, but he doesn&apos;t lie.  Hillary, on the other hand, will use whatever means she deems necessary to win - up to and including active collusion with the DNC, the purchase of Superdelegates to ensure her win, and her stunning arrogance in acting like she has to do nothing to earn a vote.  Why would I vote for a party like that?  I would almost rather just vote the Tea Bags in and let things really go to hell.  Maybe then the American people will wake up and see just how they&apos;ve been sold out, by whom, and for what - power and profit, nothing more than that.  And yes, sold out by BOTH parties too.

But Trump doesn&apos;t really have any concrete plans - only sound bites... he doesn&apos;t know the names of countries let alone their leaders... I would prefer someone who at least knows to whom they are speaking.

Come on, Nichols. Do you really think members of Occupy Wall Street will "hold their noses and vote" for Wall Street&apos;s handmaiden for President? For a great many of them (and others as well), the fact that Hillary won&apos;t let the American People know what she said to the bankster class behind closed doors is sufficient grounds, in and of itself, to disqualify her from ever receiving one of their votes. As a Bernie supporter, I can truthfully say that if Trump is the Republican nominee, I&apos;ll seriously consider voting for him. Unlike Clinton, he doesn&apos;t need Wall Street&apos;s money to live an obscenely gilded lifestyle and, of vastly more importance to me personally and also unlike Clinton, he opposed the Iraq War. In any case, the differences between a Trump presidency and a Clinton presidency would be one of degrees only. And that&apos;s just not good enough for this lifelong Democrat.

Both establishment parties put millions of dollars and lots of concern into categorizing groups.  To answer the title question?  It depends on from what culture you have evolved.  The cultures are many.  So there is  no closed end answer,  in the positive or the negative.  We&apos;ll just have to see how the polling stacks up in the end.  This is one of the most interesting campaign for President in recent history.  Trump has said too many bad things about governing.  Clinton has done too many bad things in government.

Here is a suggestion that could obviate having to make  that (ugh) choice.  If the progressive-liberal  leadership of the Democraticity Party; recognizing the difficulty it faces in November; ( Hillary&apos;s political and personal baggage, the possible Sarandon type and others who "still feel the Bern" opting --wrongly-- (my view) to go fishing --ergo the question--  and Trumps dollars and populist devotees ) --- if it were possible to forge a Biden-Warren ticket by a) persuading Hillary to forego her ego and her personal dream in favor of the future of the party and  the natioon. Obviously, given her history, is next to impossible.  b) persuade the convention delegates that a Biden-Warren ticket unifies the party&apos;smajor existing schism and thus vastly improves the chances of victory op an down the ticket in November. C)  Make the argument that the nation faces and the world, a direct future were Trump to win thus, internal sacrifices would have to  be made. Thus, early in his presidency,  Biden resigns and Warren becomes President. 
What I have written happens only in novels, but, were the cast of characters interested in transformational proressive change  and willing to forego egos. .. .  I know, call me crazy and politically naive. Too much money is at stake . There isno non-violent a ballot casting army of the working poor motivated and strong enough 

, 
Biden-

“AN INDISPENSABLE VOICE IN OUR POLITICAL DIALOGUE.”


— ELIZABETH WARREN


Stay connected with everything Nation by signing up for our free daily newsletter. 

Copyright (c) 2016 The Nation Company LLC

