 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 RICHMOND — With the departure of Ted Cruz from the presidential race Tuesday night, many national Republican loyalists lamented the future of a party that could field a nominee as polarizing as Donald Trump.

But the news was particularly jarring for Virginia Republicans fresh off two days of party warfare at a state convention where Cruz came out on top.

“All the divisiveness last weekend for nothing,” said Brian W. Schoeneman, a former member of the Fairfax County Electoral Board and a supporter of Ohio Gov. John Kasich’s, the establishment favorite who ended his long-shot campaign Wednesday. “We are the kings of self-inflicted wounds that get us nothing.”

At the other end of the spectrum, a Republican who identifies with the conservative wing of the state GOP said of Cruz’s decision: “I feel like I got smacked by a two-by-four.”

 In the final hours of last weekend’s convention in Harrisonburg, Cruz and Trump supporters traded insults over the selection of 13 of 49 total delegates to the national convention in Cleveland.

Not that it matters now. Officially, the state party apparatus must quickly pivot to Trump, no matter how unenthusiastic some leaders may feel about the brash billionaire.

“The RPV will support the nominee 100 percent,” John Whitbeck, chairman of the Republican Party of Virginia, said Tuesday night — without mentioning Trump.

House Speaker William J. Howell (R-Stafford) released a lukewarm statement that said, in part: “I am a Republican, and I will support the Republican nominee.”

Trump’s Virginia campaign chairman, Corey Stewart, publicly derided the party as “rotten and corrupt” after being left off the delegates slate at the state convention.

But late Tuesday, after Cruz quit, Stewart’s message was all about unity.

“Now is the time for Virginians to come together and stand behind Donald Trump as the Republican nominee for President,” said Stewart, chairman of the Prince William County Board of Supervisors and a candidate for governor in 2017. “Virginia is an essential state this November, and all of us need to band together to defeat Hillary Clinton.”

Although it wasn’t a surprise, given Trump’s string of primary wins, the reality hit some hard.

“If you’re a conservative, it’s been a very long time since you could be happy with a presidential nominee,” said Steve Albertson, who is on the party’s governing board and runs the conservative Bull Elephant blog. “We’ve had two Bushes, John McCain, Mitt Romney — now this.” Albertson said he will nonetheless support Trump.

The reaction shows the schism between longtime state party activists and primary voters at large, who delivered Trump a decisive win on March 1.

 [Are anti-Trump Republicans ready to help elect Clinton?] 

David Ramadan, a former House of Delegates member from Loudoun County, has been a vocal member of the “NeverTrump” movement. “Trump as the GOP nominee means a series of defeats for our Republicans in Virginia and the nation for a decade,” Ramadan said.

Minutes after Cruz suspended his campaign, Democrats sent out an “emergency” fundraising plea.

The email said, “We must win Virginia, or Donald Trump will be President.”

local

virginia-politics













Please provide a valid email address. 

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

local

virginia-politics







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

