
	What Donald Trump has done across the last 11 months is not just take out all the other candidates who started out on the stage with him, so many of whom eventually looked like they were piling out of a car at the circus.


DONALD TRUMP CRUISES TO EASY VICTORY IN INDIANA PRIMARY


	Trump absolutely did more than take out Low-Energy Jeb and Little Marco and even Chris Christie, who ended up working as a bouncer in Trump’s campaign. What Donald Trump really did was take out the Republican Party.


	He rolled through Indiana on Tuesday night, Trump did, and rolled Ted Cruz like he was mugging him in broad daylight. Now the only one left is John Kasich, who for some reason stays in a race that has seen him win one primary, in his home state of Ohio, where Trump will become the nominee of a party that he fired as surely as if it were some loser B-lister on “Celebrity Apprentice.”


	On his television show, Trump sent the losers down in an elevator. Since last June, since he came down that escalator at Trump Tower and announced he was going to run for President, what he has done is closer to throwing an entire political party down an elevator shaft.


	So this wasn’t just the end of the Cruz campaign in Indiana. It was the end of what people are still calling the Republican establishment, whatever that still means.


	You know who the real low-energy losers have been in this whole thing? The ones who never saw Trump coming, then looked drunk when they finally tried to stop him.


	This isn’t about what will happen when it is him against Hillary Clinton on the stage in the fall — if she can ever put Bernie Sanders away — and if Trump will go at her as hard when he is facing her as he does now on Twitter and on the campaign trail; when he calls her loud and Crooked Hillary and says if she were a man, “I don’t think she’d get 5% of the vote.”


TED CRUZ DROPS OUT OF 2016 PRESIDENTIAL RACE


	For now, this isn’t about how terrible the demographics are for him, even as people talk about how he is going to reimagine the electoral map. Barack Obama got 71% of the Hispanic vote four years ago against Mitt Romney — another of those genius Republican Party elders — and 73% of the Asian-American vote and 93% of African-Americans and 55% of women. On and on. The only place, really, where Romney dominated is with whites.


	For now, this is about how Trump’s message has resonated with the voters he needed to get this nomination, in this year of American politics when he figured out, and quickly, that there was nothing he couldn’t say, because enough people were that angry about their government.


	He talked about building a wall. The crowd went wild. So then he talked about a ban of Muslins coming into this country — “hitting the pause button” is the way he puts it now — and his crowds went wild again. By then, this wasn’t just normal political fighting. It was Ultimate Fighting, and Trump simply turned out to be better at it than any of the other people on that stage, whether you hate him or are simply scared to death at the prospect of him being President.


	I was talking the other day to a recent acquaintance from Ghana, a bright young man who had come to this country 11 years ago and has just gotten an MBA. And he was talking about Trump, and his brand, and his messaging, in a year when nobody else in the party had a message.


PRESIDENTIAL RACE WILL GET NASTIER AS DONALD TRUMP, HILLARY CLINTON EYE GENERAL ELECTION


	“What people were so slow to identify,” the man said to me, “was that whatever you think of his ideas, he was becoming as powerful a change candidate as Obama was eight years ago.”


	This was the day after Trump’s foreign policy speech in Washington.


	“The pundits can pick it apart,” the Ghanaian man said, “or make fun of it. And I can understand how and why they would. But you know what most people heard? They heard ‘America first.’ ”


	No Republican took him on until it was too late, and when it came down to him against Cruz, it didn’t even seem like a fair fight. Not only couldn’t Cruz win a debate against Trump, he couldn’t win one against that Trump supporter in dark glasses in Indiana.


	Of course it is one thing to win a nomination and another to get the 50 million more votes that you need to become President.


	Only Trump himself knows if he really thought he could pull this off. He says he did, that the only thing that surprised him, as he said to me months ago, was “how quickly it happened.” No one will ever know if he could have gotten to where he is without the low blows.


	But the reason he thinks he can beat Hillary Clinton is because he just put an entire political party out of business. Republican Party. Just put an “i” in the middle. So the initials read this way: R.I.P.

 Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

© Copyright 2016 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.

