

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

A quarter-century ago, Donald Trump acknowledged posing as his own media spokesman in a phone call to a reporter. On Friday, he denied it.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    Back when Donald Trump's love life was tabloid heaven, a Trump spokesman named John Miller shared knowledge of the Trump’s personal life. But The Washington Post says it was actually Trump, posing as his own spokesman in an unearthed 1991 call. (May
    AP

A quarter-century ago, Donald Trump pretty much admitted he served as his own media spokesman in a phone call to a reporter.

On Friday, he denied it.

Trump dismissed a Washington Post story about an audio tape in which a man — someone who sounds very much like Trump — identifies himself as John Miller to a reporter with People magazine, which was doing a story on the businessman's then-collapsed marriage with wife Ivana and subsequent relationship with Marla Maples.

"It doesn't sound like my voice at all," Trump told NBC's Today show. "I have many, many people that are trying to imitate my voice and you can imagine that and this sounds like one of these scams, one of the many scams. Doesn't sound like me."

Yet, as the Post noted, Trump has all but acknowledged posing as his own PR person, sometimes named John Miller and other times named John Barron.

The People magazine reporter, Sue Carswell, told the Post that the 1991 interview "was so farcical, that he pretended to be his own publicist."

Reports the Post:



"After Carswell’s story appeared — headlined 'Trump Says Goodbye Marla, Hello Carla  ... And a Mysterious PR Man Who Sounds Just Like Donald Calls to Spread the Story' — Trump invited the reporter out for a night on the town with him and Maples. Carswell says Maples persuaded Trump to issue the invitation as an apology for tricking her. A few weeks later, when People ran a story about Trump and Maples getting engaged, Trump was quoted saying that the John Miller call was a 'joke gone awry.' "

