

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Allies pledge to raise millions for a billionaire who boasts about self-funding campaign.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump (Photo: Carucha L. Meuse, The Journal News-USA TODAY Sport)

Republican Donald Trump, who has boasted about self-funding his campaign, is getting more financial help — whether he wants it or not.

A new super PAC, The Committee for American Sovereignty, just announced plans to raise $20 million to help the presumptive GOP nominee counter spending by allies of Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton.

"It is clear we need to ramp up major donor fundraising efforts, unify Republicans and take on the Clinton machine," said Doug Watts, the group's executive director and spokesman. The PAC's advisory committee includes former Trump executive Nicholas Ribis and prominent conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly.

It's the second super PAC to beef up its pro-Trump operation in recent weeks. Ed Rollins, a veteran Republican strategist who ran Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election campaign, recently signed on as a top strategist with the Great America PAC, another group pledging to raise millions on his behalf.

On Friday afternoon, Trump's spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in an email to USA TODAY that he "continues to disavow the support of all Super PACs."

The billionaire real-estate developer, however, did embrace the support of one big-money player Friday. Casino mogul Sheldon Adelson, who told reporters last week that he would back Trump, penned an op-ed in The Washington Post, urging the party to unite behind his fellow billionaire.

Adelson, who was the biggest super PAC donor of the 2012 presidential campaign, said it's time for elected officials, operatives and donors, to help Trump because the alternative is too "frightening."

"We must not cut off our noses to spite our faces," Adelson wrote about Republicans' reluctance to back Trump. "If Republicans do not come together in support of Trump, (President) Obama will essentially be granted something the Constitution does not allow — a third term in the name of Hillary Clinton."

Trump took to Twitter to tout the Adelson endorsement, calling it "an incredible honor."

An incredible honor to receive the endorsement of a person Ihave such tremendous respect for. Thank you, Sheldon! https://t.co/nW0N3OO4mw

