

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Happy Saturday! We could really use the weekend after breathlessly monitoring every move Donald Trump makes and counting all the Republicans who are still against him.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Happy Saturday! We could really use the weekend after breathlessly monitoring every move Donald Trump makes and counting all the Republicans who are still against him.

But here’s a silver lining for the Republican Party: The emcee of the convention is starting to look as if he may eventually support the person whom the entire convention is set up to support. And speaking of the presumptive Republican nominee, Trump has narrowed his search for veep and Chris Christie is on it — is he being held hostage? Probably not, but never forget those eyes.

Dysfunction continues on the other side of the aisle, too. Bernie Sanders doesn’t want to hear about Hillary Clinton’s damn problems. Let’s get started:

Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., holds his weekly press conference at the Capitol following his meeting with Donald Trump on May 12, 2016. (Photo: Win McNamee, Getty Images)

If there weren’t dozens of journalists standing outside tweeting, did it really happen? On Thursday, Trump and the speaker of the House (who last week said he wasn’t quite comfortable supporting Trump) had a little chitchat about how to come together. (Trump also met with other prominent Republican leaders, but those didn’t get as much attention.)

While we don’t know what happened behind closed doors, it might be safe to assume that Trump and Ryan will be on the same team soon enough. Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus — who has maybe the worst job in the world right now trying to unite his party — tweeted that it went “great.” And Ryan and Trump sent out a joint statement basically saying that drinks went well, next time we’ll get dinner.

“We had a great conversation this morning. While we were honest about our few differences, we recognize that there are also many important areas of common ground. We will be having additional discussions, but remain confident there’s a great opportunity to unify our party and win this fall, and we are totally committed to working together to achieve that goal,” the statement said.

“The process of unifying the Republican Party … takes some time,” Ryan said during a press conference later Thursday when asked whether he was endorsing Trump. But there could still be an endorsement, or at least Ryan has the good manners to find the positives in everyone: "He has a very good personality. He a very warm and genuine person,” he said of Trump.

A bunch of people who Trump said he didn’t even want ruled themselves out of being his vice president. Some others said pick me, pick me! Trump told the Associated Press he had five or six people in mind but that he’s not going to share them until the convention; the list maybe includes Chris Christie. Christie is staying quiet on whether he’s being vetted — sort of — but he said Trump is very persuasive and he and his family will make the decision if it comes to that.

"As far as the running mate situation goes, you’ll have to talk to Donald about that,'' he said, according to the Asbury Park Press. "Donald Trump’s a very persuasive guy. The fact is, I was on the short list last time, too, so it doesn’t mean a whole heck of a lot.” But then he said that being on the short list is an honor.

Bernie Sanders pauses while speaking during a campaign stop in Rapid City, S.D., on May 12, 2016. (Photo: Kristina Barker, AP)

Bernie Sanders won in West Virginia (by a lot), but that doesn’t really change the situation in the race for the Democratic nomination, since Hillary Clinton is still killing it with the delegate count.

So on Wednesday, when MSNBC’s Andrea Mitchell asked the Vermont senator whether he was just hurting his party by staying in the race and attacking Clinton, suggesting the she could be “getting beat up on two fronts,” Sanders shut it down real quick.

“In every state that we have won, in 19 states, we have had to take on the entire Democratic establishment,” he said. “We've had to take on senators and governors and mayors and members of Congress. That's what we have taken on, so please do not moan to me about Hillary Clinton's problems.”



Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Lynden, Wash., on May 7, 2016. (Photo: Elaine Thompson, AP)

If you’re sick of all the drama in our presidential election, you could just move to Canada. How do you make that happen, you ask? Find a nice Canadian to sponsor you. In the future you can possibly use this handy site, Maple Match, to pair up with someone up north. “Maple Match makes it easy for Americans to find the ideal Canadian partner to save them from the unfathomable horror of a Trump presidency,” the app’s website says.

Maple Match owner Joe Goldman told USA TODAY that the site started out as an idea — “a really really funny one" — but since they launched the site, tens of thousands of people have signed up for the wait list. And Goldman thinks the majority have have “every intention of falling in love.”

