 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Young women are one step closer to the draft after the Senate Armed Services Committee voted late Thursday to require women to register for Selective Service.

The committee, in a statement, cited the Defense Department’s recent policy change opening up all combat roles to women as the reason they felt “there is no further justification in limiting the duty to register under the Military Selective Service Act to men.”

The committee also noted that it was persuaded by the heads of the military services’ support for including women in the potential draft pool.

The military draft was suspended in the United States in 1973. But the Selective Service System has remained in place, requiring registration for a potential draft for those ages 18 to 25.

The proposed change is part of the Senate’s annual defense authorization bill, which the full Senate will likely vote on later this month.

While there is growing support to including women in the draft, a vocal opposition remains.

  [Are women headed for the draft? Support for the idea grows in Congress]  

The recent push to change the draft actually began with a measure that was designed to fail. Last month, Rep. Duncan D. Hunter (R-Calif.), who opposes opening all combat roles to women, offered an amendment during the House Armed Services Committee’s consideration of the annual defense policy bill to include women in the draft in order to start a “discussion” about the issue.

Hunter voted against his own amendment – but to his and others’ surprise, the committee ultimately approved it when a handful of Republicans joined nearly all committee Democrats to support of the proposal.

Senate Armed Services Committee chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.), Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) and other members spoke positively about including women in the draft the next day.

But some Republicans are still bitterly opposed.

Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), cited that provision as one of two reasons he voted against the defense bill in committee on Thursday, arguing that such a “deeply controversial” change “deserves to be resolved by Congress after a robust and transparent debate in front of the American people, instead of buried in an embargoed document that is passed every year to fund military pay and benefits.”

Lee offered an amendment during the committee markup to strip out the provision, but it was voted down.

Still, the question of opening the draft to women has not been put to the full House or Senate, where individual lawmakers can bring up amendments to strip the change out of the legislation.

If such amendments are brought up, they will be the first test of whether the House and Senate believe that the inclusion of women in all combat roles means it’s also time to open up the draft to women.

Both the House and Senate are tentatively scheduled to vote on their versions of the defense authorization bill later this month, before the Memorial Day break.

But even if the change requiring young women to register for Selective Service survive those votes, it won’t be the last word on the draft.

Both versions of the bill call for a sweeping study of the draft that will take a critical look at its structure and continued relevance. There has not been a national draft in over four decades, and the preference in Congress is to bolster interest in serving in an all-volunteer force.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

