

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

The Amazon CEO is using the reputable newspaper "like a toy," Trump said. 

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    Two of our political reporters sit down for an honest conversation about Donald Trump and all the media coverage he's received.Video provided by Newsy
    Newslook

One again Donald Trump has kindled the fires of conspiracy.

The soon-to-be Republican nominee for president says Jeff Bezos, the Amazon CEO who owns The Washington Post, is using the paper to attack him and the other political enemies who would force the massive online retailer to pay more in taxes.

Donald Trump told Sean Hannity in an interview Thursday that Bezos is using the Post "like a toy" Â and "for power so that Â the politicians in Washington don't tax Amazon like they should be taxed."

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Lynden, Wash. (Photo: Elaine Thompson, AP)

Bezos believes "I would go after him for anti-trust because he has a huge anti-trust problem," Trump said. In his effort tp keep Trump out of the White House and protect his monopoly, the Amazon founder has assignedÂ more than 20 Washington Post reporters to look at every aspect of his life, Trump said.

"We can't let him get away with it," Trump told Hannity.

"Every hour we're getting calls from reporters from the Washington PostÂ asking ridiculous questions," Trump said. The stories are "bad" and "wrong" and "in many cases they have no proper information," he added.

"They're slopping them together and they're going to do a book," he predicted. "And the book is going to be all false stuff because the stories are so wrong."

