

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

The reference Cruz made is way out of your league.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Ted Cruz lifted a line from one of Michael Douglas' characters. (Photo: AP)

So Donald Trump threatened to "spill the beans" on Ted Cruz's wife (metaphorically, we presume?), and Ted Cruz is having none of it.

Cruz called Trump a coward for commenting on his wife, Heidi Cruz. Then on CNN this morning, he employed a new line that fans of political dramas— both real and fictional — might remember.

"And if Donald wants to get into a character fight, he's better off sticking with me," Cruz said, "because Heidi is way out of his league."

Cruz likes quoting movies and shows. He quotes The Princess Bride, despite Inigo Montoya himself asking Cruz to stop doing so. He also quotes The Simpsons, and does a pretty mean Ned Flanders.

So it should surprise no one that, when pressed to defend the woman he loves, Cruz borrowed a line from Michael Douglas' character, President Andrew Shepherd, who does the same thing in The American President.

Here are both clips for comparison:

Ted Cruz literally lifted a line from The American President pic.twitter.com/BdG7Qcr4Ye

The American President was written by Aaron Sorkin, whose biting dialogue made him famous in shows such as The West Wing and films including The Social Network.

Trump, of course, was not impressed:

Lyin’ Ted Cruz steals foreign policy from me, and lines from Michael Douglas— just another dishonest politician.

Will any other candidates quote Sorkin in 2016? Maybe Donald Trump could break out this line from Sean Parker, played by Justin Timberlake in The Social Network: 

"A million dollars isn't cool. You know what's cool? A billion dollars."

[h/t @lachlan]

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Cruz calls Trump a 'coward' after tweet about his wife

