Accessibility links


		Thursday 24 March 2016


							By Jonathan Pearlman, Sydney

3:50PM GMT 23 Mar 2016

 A London-born Australian woman who had a daughter using IVF and then fell in love with the anonymous sperm donor has revealed the couple married last December. 

 Describing her so-called “back to front” romance as far-fetched, Aminah Hart, 46, said on Wednesday she married Scott Anderson, a cattle farmer whom she met after the birth of their baby Leila, at a quiet service near Melbourne. 

 The pair made global headlines when their relationship emerged two years ago after they were profiled on Australian television. 

 “What happened to Scott and I is such a random thing,” Ms Hart told Channel Nine, as she warned she “wouldn’t ever advocate it [IVF] as a dating service”. 

 Aminah Hart's book 'How I Met Your Father'  

 “He was basically just a brief profile on a piece of paper. He could have been anyone. The fact that we met and we liked each other and we fell in love and all of those things are still so farfetched to me.” 

 Ms Hart, a former advertising executive, chose Mr Anderson as a donor from about five possible candidates and knew only that he was “happy and healthy”, had four children and was a football-playing farmer. He had ticked a box to indicate he was willing to be contacted before Leila turned eighteen. 

 The pair were engaged for about two years and married in Sorrento, a popular tourist town. 

 “We managed to keep it quite a private day and it was just beautiful,” Ms Hart said. 

 “There was a lot of love in the room for us. People were really happy to see two people so happy… Sometimes we do look at each other and go, ‘you and I met through [Leila] and we’re married now’. It’s kind of bizarre.” 

 Scott Anderson and daughter Leila on his wedding day  Photo: Facebook 

 Ms Hart’s father was a West Indian film extra who met her Australian mother in London shortly after he returned from playing Omar Sharif's bodyguard in the film Lawrence of Arabia. 

 The couple split when Ms Hart was young and she tried to find him in England when she was in her 20s, but learnt that he died about a year before her arrival. 

 She has written a memoir titled How I Met Your Father and a production company is reportedly planning to turn her story into a film. 


Top news galleries



One hundred whip-smart wisecracks



In pics: Christians around the world celebrating Easter 



Treat yourself to something new this weekend - without blowing the budget 



We've pulled together the most amusing Street View images from around the 
  world 



In pics: Awkward Family Photos' best scary Easter shots



In pics: The sheep fighting rams of China



Photos of British astronaut Tim Peake on board the International Space Station 



An illustrated guide to help you avoid insulting the locals during your next 
  foreign holiday 



In pics: Mariah Carey, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Slayer with puppies



From the Apple iPod to Google driverless cars, we run down the technologies 
  that have transformed our world since the start of the 21st century 



Latest Video»



More from the web



More from the web 



More from the web


Back to top

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

Terms and Conditions 

Today's News

Archive

Style Book

Weather Forecast

