

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Well, that was inconclusive.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Well, that was inconclusive. Through three contests yesterday, Donald Trump extended his delegate lead by 18 over Ted Cruz, while Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders split the delegates of three Western states. Before we get to the results, the Twitter spats, and how much America hates both front-runners, take a minute to subscribe to the For the Record newsletter before the next round of inconclusive results. Happy Wednesday!

USA TODAY

For the Record: Sign up for our politics newsletter

Arizona voters await their opportunity to put this whole thing behind them until November. (Photo: Michael Chow, Arizona Republic)

The "Stop Trump" movement continues to look like Ewoks trying to take down an Imperial Walker. Yesterday's Republican contests, the first with a post-Marco Rubio landscape, gave Donald Trump all 58 Arizona delegates and Ted Cruz all 40 Utah delegates. Both Trump and Cruz each picked up one delegate from the American Samoa caucuses as well. Cruz became the first GOP candidate this year to win a state with more than 50% of the vote, but the time for moral victories and exceeding expectations is over — right now, Cruz needs to close the delegate gap, and he's going the wrong direction. The #NeverTrump folks gets two weeks to regroup before the next Republican vote (April 5 in Wisconsin) — and decide if they have a better chance with John Kasich to slow Trump in the Midwest and Northeast.

The Democratic contests were a wash, with Hillary Clinton taking Arizona while Bernie Sanders won in Utah and Idaho. Hillary's win in more heavily populated Arizona offset Bernie's pair of wins, so when the dust settles they roughly will split the 131 delegates that were up for grabs. Sanders is well-positioned in this Saturday's caucuses in Washington, Alaska and Hawaii; a sweep of all three for Bernie isn't out of the question.

A decent night, but they've had better. (Photo: File photo, AFP/Getty Images)

If Clinton and Trump turn their current leads into nominations, there's going to be a whole lot of hate-voting this November.

In every presidential election since 1984, CBS has asked voters if they have a favorable or unfavorable opinion of the two front-running candidates. At the top of the all-time list? Donald Trump with a net -33% favorability rating — loved by 24%, hated by 57% — followed by Hillary Clinton at -21% — loved by 31%, hated by 52%. The only two candidates on the all-time list to overcome negative ratings were George H.W. Bush (-1% in 1988) and Bill Clinton (-17% in 1992). The way you're feeling about these candidates, you just can't deny ... but you've gotta let it go (and vote for one of them).

Twitter: Celebrating 10 years of making politics even more sound-bitey (Photo: Leon Neal, AFP/Getty Images)

The five remaining major-party candidates took to Twitter to weigh in on Tuesday's terrorist attacks in Brussels. Each candidate's most-shared responses:

@realDonaldTrump: Do you all remember how beautiful and safe a place Brussels was. Not anymore, it is from a different world! U.S. must be vigilant and smart! (17,110 retweets, 41,419 likes)

@BernieSanders: It’s important we not succumb to bigotry. We are fighting a terrorist organization killing innocent people. We are not fighting a religion. (12,227 retweets, 15,708 likes)

@HillaryClinton: My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those killed and wounded, and all the people of Belgium. -H (3,497 retweets, 8,541 likes)

@tedcruz: We will name our enemy -- radical Islamic terrorism. And we will defeat it. (1,075 retweets, 1,925 likes)

@JohnKasich: The president must return home immediately and get to work with our allies to respond with strength against the enemies of the west. (363 retweets, 1,003 likes)



John Oliver's Last Week Tonight put together the 388,115th examination of whether Trump actually could build the wall or not.

