Advertisement

Advertisement

By NICK CORASANITIAPRIL 9, 2016


Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign is featuring an endorsement from Erica Garner, the daughter of Eric Garner, the Staten Island man who died during an arrest after police officers placed him in a chokehold, in its first ad in New York before next week’s primary.

The ad, which is intended to appeal to the minority voters that Mr. Sanders has struggled to win in earlier contests, is an attempt to marry movements — the political “revolution” Mr. Sanders seeks and the Black Lives Matter effort that has sought to highlight police killings of unarmed African-Americans.

Mr. Sanders is seeking to align himself with the civil rights movement and convince black voters that he understands the protest movement. Mr. Garner’s daughter, Erica Garner, shown embracing her own daughter, describes the importance of family — “This is everything that I have, my family” — before describing what it was like to watch “my dad die on national TV.” Scenes of protests, with people on the ground in a “die in” and at a march chanting, “I can’t breathe” — Mr. Garner’s words as he was taken to the ground, which became a rallying cry for protesters.

The ad then shows images from Chicago in 1963, when civil rights protests took over the city. A young man in dirt-splattered jeans, identified as a Mr. Sanders, is handcuffed and arrested, as the protests delve into chaos. Ms. Garner then delivers the ad’s most important line — “I believe Bernie Sanders is a protester” — and an officer slams the door on a police van.

The ad is a re-cut and revised version of a longer, two-minute ad the Sanders campaign ran in South Carolina, which earned praise for portraying the issues of race and justice in America in a more human light. Doug Stafford, the chief strategist of Senator Rand Paul’s campaign, wrote at the time that the “ad teaches us something far more important than politics.” This version comes as Hillary Clinton has received the endorsement of Nicole Bell, whose fiancé, Sean Bell, was shot and killed by New York officers on the morning of their wedding day in 2006.

Advertisement

The endorsement of Ms. Garner didn’t help Mr. Sanders in South Carolina, where Mrs. Clinton beat him fairly soundly — by more than six to one — among black voters. But in the city where the Garner story occured and is likely to resonate, an ad featuring her praise of Mr. Sanders could go further. And Mr. Sanders will need that help, as he faces an uphill battle in the New York primary: The most recent Quinnipiac University poll in the state had him trailing Ms. Clinton by 12 percentage points. He will need to make inroads in New York City in particular, as Mrs. Clinton enjoys broad support from her time as senator from New York.

Changing channels …

Mr. Sanders’s campaign has swapped state-specific footage for its “America” ad— featuring the Simon and Garfunkel song — for most earlier contests. As the primary season comes to New York, so does the opening scene of the most recent version, with a highway sign pointing to Exit 16E for the Lincoln Tunnel. The only problem: it’s from the highways of New Jersey, a state that doesn’t until June 7. (Later in the ad, the lyrics do recall “Counting the cars on the New Jersey Turnpike,” for what it’s worth.)

As Gov. John Kasich’s team has turned its attention to Senator Ted Cruz, the “super PAC” supporting Mr. Kasich, New Day for America, has been parroting some lines from Donald J. Trump, calling the Texas senator “Lyin’ Ted” and derisively criticizing his “New York values” comment. But, in a sign that the campaign and super PAC clearly are not coordinating, the Kasich campaign released a very similar ad on Thursday, also criticizing Mr. Cruz’s comment.

The voice sounds like a used-car salesman proclaiming a Sunday sale. The images of Mr. Trump barely move. Two different numbers are shown on the screen. The ad currently airing on national satellite channels – a very unusual move — by Great America PAC, which is supporting Mr. Trump, has raised a lot of questions. While the group claims to be spending $1 million, there is no evidence of that, and calling the telephone number on screen leads to a live operator who asks for a donation. Mr. Trump has consistently disavowed super PACs and says he does not want their support.

$9.4 million:  Amount spent on direct, addressable satellite advertising so far this campaign cycle.

191: Number of times a presidential campaign ad has run in the New York City broadcast market.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page A15 of the National edition with the headline: Bernie Sanders Campaign Hopes an Endorsement Resonates in New York.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe



See More »

Go to Home Page »

