

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

He is eating a lot of food. Join him, dear reader, and share in the glory of his plunder.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Glorious. (Photo: Timothy A. Clary, AFP/Getty Images)

On Thursday, John Kasich once again scarfed down Italian food on the campaign trail, this time at Mike's Deli in New York City's Bronx borough.

And while the Ohio governor drew controversy last week for eating pizza with a fork, Thursday's appearance saw him plow through a veritable journey of Italian cuisine.

According to Business Insider, Kasich ate:

• Two plates of spaghetti bolognese
• A sandwich of his own design, The J.K. Special, including salami, provolone, mozzarella, pickles and hot peppers
• Pasta fagioli with cheese
• A bit of antipasto from someone else's plate

He also drank some wine and ordered cannoli to go.

"Mamma mia!" Kasich proclaimed.

Come, dear reader, and join John Kasich on this journey:

This ain't Ohio - feast that awaits John Kasich in the Bronx. He has appearance at Mikes Deli on Arthur Ave. pic.twitter.com/AbN7fkrr8F

Kasich jokes: "Never use a fork" pic.twitter.com/GlnFl5jEfd

I think Kasich is enjoying the Bronx pic.twitter.com/WXOBhO84my

Kasich just got mad at the deli owners for trying to take his second plate of spaghetti away from him

@maxwelltani now drinking wine pic.twitter.com/Aps0BC9rJk



"Mama mia!" — John Kasich, governor of Ohio

And now, dear friends, the journey is complete. Bask in the glory of John Kasich's full stomach.

Astute followers of Kasich's culinary exploits will recall the governor ate three pork chops, beans, an ear of corn and ice cream at last year's Iowa State Fair. Did Kasich top that on Thursday? You decide.

And if you want seconds, here's a whole gallery of John Kasich eating pizza.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

[h/t Business Insider]

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Unrelatable to voters? John Kasich ate pizza using a fork

