Advertisement

Advertisement

By SARAH MASLIN NIRAPRIL 8, 2016


Bernie Sanders returned on Friday once again to Brooklyn, the borough where he grew up and picked up his distinctive accent, as he squares off against Hillary Clinton in the New York Democratic primary.

Standing in front of 1525 East 26th Street, the slightly down-at-the-heels apartment building in the Midwood section of Brooklyn where he lived as a boy, Mr. Sanders, a Vermont senator, rallied neighbors with a stump speech spiced with only-in-Brooklyn references about hanging out on a corner of nearby Kings Highway and whiling away the days playing “punch ball.”

“He totally related to everything — punch ball, box ball, Kings Highway — I chill on Kings Highway!” said Jeffrey Mizrahi, 20, who grew up in the neighborhood and peered out a window in his friend’s apartment on the fifth floor of Senator Sanders’s old building to watch his speech. “It’s not a play that he came home,” he said. “You always come back to Brooklyn.”

The brief visit on Friday notwithstanding, Mr. Sanders, 74, seemed to be viewed by residents of his old neighborhood less as a native son and more as a novelty. Nowhere was that more the case than in the apartment building where he lived with his family as a boy.

Their returned son might be back and he might have an outside chance to be president, but with the April 19 primary nearing, some of Mr. Sanders’s neighbors (so to speak) seemed to be little affected by his ties to the borough — and to the building.

“It’s so exciting that he lived in this building!” Farida Lazareva, 57, said just before she tucked into a roast beef sandwich in her apartment on the fourth floor of 1525 East 26th Street.

Advertisement

Her unit, where she has lived for three years, is two floors above Apartment 2C, where Mr. Sanders grew up. When he lived there, the area was predominantly Jewish. Today, the building’s buzzer panel for its 85 units could be mistaken for the intercom of an apartment building in Russia.

Asked what she thought of him, Ms. Lazareva laughed with delight. “Oh, I hate him!” she said.

Ms. Lazareva, who hails from Moscow, recalled waiting in line for three hours each morning to get a jug of milk as a little girl living under communism. “If you lived under socialists, you’d hate them too,” she said. “They make everyone poor.”

Although Mr. Sanders, as a self-described democratic socialist, has a vision for America that is distinct from the economic system in the former Soviet Union, the word “socialist” was enough to provoke anxiety in Ms. Lazareva.

She was unmoved. “Everyone will be hungry, everyone will be poor,” she said. “If it will be Sanders, we will have the same here. Everybody who comes from a communist country, Russians, Eastern Europeans, even Latinos from Cuba, feel this way. When you know what will happen, when you see it — you’re Republican.”

In the apartment directly above her tidy unit, three friends — Tom Weaver, 18; Morgan McIlvain, 18; and Pavel Trofimov, 27 — had just finished eating lunch on their couch. This year would be Mr. Weaver’s first time voting, and, as the sticker of the senator with the Einstein hairdo on his guitar case indicated, he was a Sanders man. He became a supporter, he said, after an online quiz told him that his values and those of the man who grew up a few floors below were aligned.

“It’s empowering to be able to have a say,” he said.

It did not surprise the roommates that a lofty political figure could have roots in an apartment as modest as theirs. “I think a Bernie could come from anywhere — Manhattan, Queens, Bronx, anywhere else,” said Mr. Weaver, clutching his guitar case. “It doesn’t matter where you grow up. It’s the beliefs that you hold, the morals you have.”

Mr. Sanders moved out of the building in the 1950s, around the time he left Brooklyn College. Such humble beginnings might help keep a candidate humble, said Mr. Trofimov, who grew up shuttling from one foster home to another. “All it really comes down to is where you’re from,” he said. “If you’re brought up with nothing but talking to your neighbors and getting to know your community, I think it’s different. You’re more in tune with the people,” he said, while sweeping the living-room floor. Was that a vote, then, for Mr. Sanders?

“I don’t vote,” he said. “I think all politicians are crooks.”

Riding around on his bike outside 1525, where he lives, Boris Ganelin, 62, an engineer, said Mr. Sanders’s socialist philosophy was distasteful to him as a Ukrainian immigrant, but he said he was at a loss about whom he might support.

Straddling his bike, he ticked off a bleak political ticket on his fingers: Mrs. Clinton (a “Teflon lady” capable of sidestepping all scandal), Ted Cruz (“he’s a politician”) and Donald J. Trump (“sometimes he says things that are too hard for me to swallow”). Nevertheless, Mr. Ganelin, a tenant of Mr. Sanders’s old building — from which the James Madison High School fields where Mr. Sanders ran track are visible through the windows — was leaning toward Mr. Trump. “I know, I know,” he said. “It’s ridiculous!”

Advertisement

(At the rally on Friday, Mr. Sanders’s former track-and-field glory was on full display. A high school classmate, Tom Ingram, 74, came with a school newspaper showing a teenage Mr. Sanders in a full sprint. The caption: “Bernie Sanders leads the field.”)

Inside the Dokvtovich family’s apartment a few days before Mr. Sanders’s visit, Oleg, 9, and Sergei, 7, ran around the house in their superhero underwear. Oleg was impressed that a presidential candidate grew up in his apartment building. But standing in the kitchen, holding his 9-month-old sister, Elizabeth, he said he had no plans to follow suit: too much stress.

His mother, Oxana, 38, interjected. Her boys, she said, were born in Russia, and thus were out of the running. Only Elizabeth had a shot at the White House.

“Yes!” said Oleg, squeezing the baby in his arms. She would be a great president, he said, “because she’s a girl!”

An earlier version of this article misstated the terms of Bernie Sanders’s departure from Brooklyn College. He left the school, he did not graduate from it.

A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 2016, on page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Back in the Old Neighborhood to Make His Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe



See More »

Go to Home Page »

