Thousands of protesters marched on Downing Street on Saturday afternoon, calling on David Cameron to resign over the Panama Papers revelations detailing his tax affairs. 

Demonstrators wielded placards which said "he's got to go" amid a heavy police presence in the capital. 

It came as Mr Cameron admitted he should have handled the row over his tax affairs “better” and told activists at the party’s local election launch that he “will learn the lessons” of the past week.

In a humiliating apology to the party faithful at a conference in London, the Prime Minister attempted to draw a line under a dreadful week in which he repeatedly failed to clarify his tax affairs.

Mr Cameron also confirmed that “later on” he will publish his tax returns stretching back six years to 2009/10 when he sold shares in his father’s offshore company Blairmore Holdings.

Meanwhile, Lily Allen was among protesters who gathered outside Grand Connaught Rooms, the conference was held.

#resigncameron pic.twitter.com/cG6rbWZ1oq

#Cameron demo infront of Grand Connaught Rooms hotel. Festive mood, light policing. Some splinter groups moved on pic.twitter.com/2d4CwIfOgQ

#panamapapers protesters outside Grand Connaught Rooms to make sure @David_Cameron hears their voice #CameronResign pic.twitter.com/JNrZcOXC6O

Mr Cameron told the audience of activists: "Well it's not been a great week. I know I could have handled this better, I should have handled this better, I know there are lessons to learn and I will learn them. Don’t blame Number 10 Downing Street or nameless advisers. Blame me, I will learn the lessons.

"I was obviously very angry about what people were saying about my Dad. I love my Dad, I miss him every day. He was a wonderful father and I'm very proud of everything he did.

 

"But I mustn't let that cloud the picture and the facts are these. The facts are that I bought shares in a unit trust, shares that are like any other sorts of shares, and paid taxes on them in exactly the same way. I sold those shares in fact I sold all the shares that I owned.

"Later on I will be publishing all the information that goes into my tax return, not just for this year but for years gone past because I want to be completely transparent and open about these things. I will be the first Prime Minister, the first leader of a major political party to do that. I think it's the right thing to do."

"This Government that I lead will go on very clearly, very doggedly, very determindly making sure that we crack down on tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance.

"When Labour say quite rightly that we have given international leadership of this issue, that will go on being a signature tune of this Conservative Government. And quite right too."

Mr Cameron also made some powerful points on tackling Islamist extremism, admitting that the Government’s response so far was not necessarily “the perfect answer”.

He said: “I sense in this country and this Government we have a clearer view of the threat we face. "Poverty is not the cause. Too many of these people who go to Syria are graduates. Some of these people who are going are quite integrated, they are British born. That is by the cause. The cause of this problem is the extremism itself.

"The one thing they have in common is that they all but into the same perverted World view. This is not a war between civilisations. This is a war within Islam where a very small minority have turned religion into a death cult.

"We are not simply up against people who preach bloodshed, we are up against an extremist Lindsey that western societies are corrupt, and that while not necessarily promoting violence believes violence is justified. "We must have no truck with extremism. We are all genuinely in this fight together."

 

© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

