Advertisement

Advertisement

By YAMICHE ALCINDOR and AMY CHOZICKAPRIL 9, 2016


Senator Bernie Sanders is looking to extend his winning streak Saturday as the Democratic presidential race comes to Wyoming, while Senator Ted Cruz will try to pad his winning margin in the Colorado’s Republican contest.

With just 14 delegates up for grabs, a victory by Mr. Sanders in Saturday’s Wyoming caucuses would only peck away at Hillary Clinton’s 219-delegate lead. But coming after his recent big wins in Washington State, Alaska, Idaho, Utah, Hawaii and Wisconsin, a Sanders victory in Wyoming would continue to expose Mrs. Clinton’s weaknesses among white and liberal voters as the race moves to major primaries in New York and elsewhere in the Northeast.

In Colorado, where Republican delegates have been voting over several days, Mr. Cruz had clinched a majority of the state’s 37 national delegates by Friday night. Thirteen others were to be decided on Saturday at the Republican state convention, where Mr. Cruz is scheduled to speak. Like Mr. Sanders, Mr. Cruz still trails the front-runner in his race, in his case, Donald J. Trump. And the campaign now moves to territory likely to be far more favorable to Mr. Trump.

Though Mr. Sanders was favored in the Wyoming Democratic race, Mrs. Clinton, as she has in most states, had endorsements from more elected officials, and the state’s four “superdelegates” are supporting her. In 2008, she lost to Barack Obama in Wyoming by 24 percentage points.

Advertisement

The state is exactly the type of contest she struggles in. It is mostly white, and it uses a caucus format. Mrs. Clinton has not campaigned in Wyoming, choosing instead to devote time and resources to the delegate-rich New York and Pennsylvania primaries on April 19 and April 26, respectively.

Instead, the campaign dispatched former President Bill Clinton to the state to campaign on his wife’s behalf. On a stop in Cheyenne this month, he talked about the need for clean energy and a transition away from coal and other fossil fuels — comments that came as 500 Wyoming coal workers faced being laid off. A protester outside held a sign that read, “God, guns and coal made America great.”

Mr. Clinton spoke about the layoffs. “Just think about the jobs that would be created in Wyoming if we decided to maximize your capacity to export wind as you export coal,” he said at the Cheyenne-Kiwanis Community House.

The former president seemed acutely aware of his wife’s chances in the state’s caucuses. “There are a lot of young college students who have been very enthusiastic about her opponent because he promises free tuition for everyone,” he said. (Mr. Sanders has proposed free tuition at public colleges.)

“But,” Mr. Clinton said, “if you read the fine print, the free tuition comes two-thirds from the federal government and one-third from the state.” He said it was unrealistic to expect the state’s Republican governor and Legislature to support the program.

Mr. Sanders himself showed up in Wyoming, holding a rally Tuesday in Laramie, where he delivered his victory speech after winning the Wisconsin primary.

“I believe we have an excellent chance to win New York and a lot of delegates in that state,” Mr. Sanders said in Laramie. “We have an excellent chance to win in Oregon, and to win in California.”

Referring to his large deficit among superdelegates, the party leaders and elected officials who have overwhelmingly backed Mrs. Clinton, but who could still change their mind, he said: “I think a lot of these superdelegates are going to be looking around them. And they are going to be saying, ‘Which candidate has the momentum?’ ”

Advertisement

James King, a political science professor at the University of Wyoming, said the state, which has struggled to diversify its economy beyond coal, gas and oil, was a good fit for Mr. Sanders. “He really has to, I think, at each success build on another success, and he is running out of states obviously,” Professor King said.

New York, Mrs. Clinton’s adopted home state and Mr. Sanders’s birth state, could be a firewall that lets her reclaim the momentum and take a big step toward making her delegate lead insurmountable. Its more diverse population and its more traditional primary method of voting make the state friendlier territory for Mrs. Clinton.

Go to Home Page »

