



The Boston Globe on Sunday envisioned what the first months of a Donald Trump presidency would look like with a satirical front page and critical op-ed piece.

On the cover, an editor’s note explains the intent to show the “dangers of Trump’s vision.”

“This is Donald Trump’s America,” the note reads. “What you read on this page is what might happen if the GOP front-­runner can put his ideas into practice, his words into action. Many Americans might find this vision appealing, but the Globe’s editorial board finds it deeply troubling.”

With the headline “DEPORTATIONS TO BEGIN” splashed above the fold, the page imagines riots as “President” Trump calls for the tripling of federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.

“The president made the announcement in a nationally televised address last night from the Old Post Office building in Washington, D.C., now a Trump International Hotel,” the satirical article reads. “In a surprise move after the speech, Trump invited Attorney General Chris Christie to stand right next to him at the podium to field questions. ‘#no_side_eye for Christie this time,’ tweeted Fox News Channel reporter Megyn Kelly, who was covering the speech from a sports bar near Rockefeller Center because she has been placed on a White House blacklist.”

The editorial page also describes U.S. soldiers refusing orders to kill the families of ISIS militants and sweeping changes to libel law, references to Trump’s controversial statements concerning terrorism and the press.

RELATED: Why Trump’s appeal is wider than you might think

In an accompanying op-ed, the Globe’s editorial board calls on the GOP to stop Trump.

“At some point, after the election, Republicans will also need to ask themselves some tough questions about how their actions and inactions made the party vulnerable to Trump,” the op-ed reads. “Chasing short-term political gains, the GOP missed a lot of chances to fight the hateful currents that now threaten to overwhelm it. For now, Republicans ought to focus on doing the right thing: putting up every legitimate roadblock to Trump that they can.”

