

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Vermont senator is beating Clinton in contests, but not gaining much on delegates

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Bernie Sanders speaks at the Apollo Theater in Harlem on April 9, 2016. (Photo: Peter Foley, EPA)

Bernie Sanders — who is winning delegate contests against Hillary Clinton but not catching up much in terms of actual delegates — insists he has a path to the Democratic presidential nomination, starting with primaries in New York and Pennsylvania.

"We believe that we have the momentum," Sanders said Sunday on ABC's This Week. "We believe that the polling is showing that we're closing the gap."

The Vermont senator toured a string of Sunday shows a day after beating Clinton by double digits in the Wyoming caucuses — though Clinton will wind up with more convention delegates thanks to "superdelegates" who can back any candidate they want.

Speaking on NBC's Meet The Press, Sanders said he has cut Clinton's lead by one-third in recent weeks, won eight of the last nine delegate contests, and is moving up in national polls against both Clinton and potential Republican opponents.

USA TODAY

Obama to Fox News: No politics in Hillary Clinton email investigation

"We're running stronger against Donald Trump and other Republicans than Secretary Clinton," Sanders told NBC. "I think we stand a really good chance to do well in New York State, in Pennsylvania, and as we head into other states."

The New York primary is April 19, and Clinton holds a double-digit lead there, according to recent polls. Pennsylvania — along with Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland and Rhode Island —  holds its primary a week later.

The Associated Press reports that, when superdelegates are included, Clinton holds a significant lead over Sanders: 1,756 to 1,068.

Sanders said he believes his campaign can block Clinton from winning the 2,383 delegates needed for nomination at the convention.

"I believe that we have a real path to victory," Sanders said on CBS' Face The Nation, "and that at the end of the day, we're going to win this."

Clinton, naturally, disagrees.

The former New York senator and secretary of State told CNN's State of The Union on Sunday: "I intend to have the number of delegates that are required to be nominated."

