Advertisement

Donald J. Trump paid his first-ever visit to the September 11 Memorial Museum on Saturday, a gesture on a rainy day that was unmistakably aimed at Senator Ted Cruz with the New York primary a little more than a week away.

Mr. Trump also made a contribution of $100,000 to the museum, a spokesman for the non-profit organization, Michael Frazier, confirmed. It was Mr. Trump’s first donation to the museum, which took years to complete and was steered mostly by the former mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, who secured donations for years and serves as its chairman.

The tour was led by by the museum president, Joe Daniels, and lasted just under 30 minutes. Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania, left their black Suburban around 12:20 p.m. and entered the service entrance on West Street. Mr. Trump did not stop to look at the outdoor memorial, which was coated in rain, where the names of the victims are engraved.

Mr. Trump has pointed to the city’s resilience after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center as an example of New York at its best. Mr. Cruz has tried to portray Mr. Trump as too liberal for the Republican Party, and said before the Iowa caucuses that the real estate developer represents “New York values.”

Mr. Cruz is fighting to keep Mr. Trump, who is leading in statewide polling, below 50 percent of the vote in the April 19 primary. Mr. Trump and his aides have sought to remind voters of the “New York values” remark, and they have had plenty of help in doing so from the city’s tabloids.

Reporters who were invited late on Friday to join Mr. Trump for the museum visit, which was not on his schedule, were kept in a media van as he entered the museum. An aide said he would speak with reporters afterward, but Mr. Trump then decided against it. His aides sent out a photo of the Trumps inside the museum about 90 minutes later, along with a statement saying that the rebuilding of ground zero was “what ‘New York values’ are really about.”

People inside the museum posted on Twitter about the surprise of finding Mr. Trump and his entourage there. Some said they were aggravated that he was there, while others simply posted photos, including one dimly lit shot of Mr. Trump in front of a wall of photos of some of the victims.

https://twitter.com/WhatCaySay/status/718838717075562496

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the mayor at the time of the attacks and a friend of Mr. Trump, said that it was wise of him to cancel the discussion with reporters outside the museum.

“That was classy, that he decided not to do it,” Mr. Giuliani said in a phone interview. He said that Mr. Trump might be criticized no matter what he did, but that he had no issues with a candidate making their first visit to the museum during a political season.

“I think if you’re running in New York, you should go to show respect,” Mr. Giuliani said, pointing out that the museum is a haunting experience for some people. “I could also see why up until now you might not do it.”

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.


		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		


Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
        


			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			

