 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

Americans spent $60 billion on their companion animals last year. A majority of pet owners share their beds with furry friends. People take their dogs to work, create Instagram accounts for them and help them complete bucket lists. People, it’s clear, increasingly think of  pets as family — or fellow people.

The law, however, sees pets very differently: They are property, like a car or a toaster.

Now the Supreme Court of Georgia is mulling the disconnect between those two views. In a case that could be decided next month, judges are considering whether a rescue mutt whose death was allegedly caused by a kennel’s negligence had the value of a used toaster — zilch — or a value relative to how the dog’s owners felt about her and the $67,000 they spent to save her.

In short: How much is a pet dog worth?

The dog in question was an 8-year-old dachshund mix named Lola. She had been adopted from a shelter by Bob and Elizabeth Monyak of Atlanta, two attorneys with three children and a Labrador retriever named Callie.

  [Being labeled a pit bull can doom a shelter dog’s chances of adoption]  

In 2012, the family took a vacation to France. Thirteen-year-old Callie and Lola, 8, were checked into The Inn, one of five Atlanta-area kennels run by Barking Hound Village that advertises its “private suites and secluded areas for rest and relaxation.” The Monyaks gave special instructions to caretakers: Callie, who had arthritis, needed to take Rimadyl, an anti-inflammatory.

The Monyaks said in an interview that when they picked the dogs up, Lola had no appetite. The next day, she was trembling. A veterinarian diagnosed acute renal failure, almost certainly from an overdose of Rimadyl. Nine months later, after treatment from Atlanta veterinarians and multiple dialysis treatments in Florida, Lola died. The Monyaks sued the kennel, alleging — and saying in court filings that they have evidence — that Barking Hound Village’s employees incorrectly gave Callie’s medication to Lola. Barking Hound Village strongly denies that.

But the question that has made its way to the state’s highest court is not about whether the kennel caused Lola’s death. It’s about what damages the Monyaks are owed. Barking Hound Village argues that Lola was property, and the Monyaks are entitled only to her “market value” — which, because she was a free rescue mutt, is nothing. The Monyaks want to recover the $67,000 in veterinary and other expenses they say they spent, and they also want a jury to be able to consider Lola’s “actual value” to their family, such as their feelings for her.

“Our position is a dog is not fungible. It’s not like you throw it in the trash can and get another dog,” Elizabeth Monyak said. “We didn’t want another 8-year-old dachshund. We wanted Lola.”

The case is a classic example of the divide between the public’s beliefs about the value of pets and the law’s colder view of them as property, said David Favre, a law professor and expert on animal law at Michigan State University. A few legal changes have chipped at the edges of this boundary, he said, noting that people can now create trust provisions for their pets, which is an acknowledgement that they aren’t the same kind of property as a table or lawnmower.

But when it comes to damages for the death of a pet, state supreme courts have usually knocked down trial and appellate court decisions that award emotional or “non-economic” damages, Favre said, because they view it as a slippery slope. (Separately, a small number of states have enacted legislation on recoverable damages in such cases; Tennessee dog or cat owners, for example, can recover up to $5,000 “for the loss of the reasonably expected society, companionship, love and affection of the pet.”)

Courts more often allow juries to award damages for “reasonable” veterinary costs, Favre said, though some are wary of leaving that judgment in juries’ hands.

“Is that loss of companionship worth $10,000?” said Favre, who added that he did not think many juries would consider $67,000 reasonable. “That may depend on who’s in the room and how much of a pet lover they are.”

  [Bucket lists for dying dogs are officially a thing now]  

That is one argument made by Barking Hound Village and supporters that filed an amicus brief, including the American Veterinary Medical Association. Wealthy people can spend more to treat their pets, so they would be awarded more, they argue. And allowing compensation beyond the pet’s market value would lead to increased liability for people who care for dogs and more litigation, which would lead to higher fees for their services. That’s not the “pro-pet position,” the amicus brief said.

Veterinarians and others’ liability would rise “solely upon the abstract value of the injured animal to its owner and the owner’s financial means to care for the animal,” Barking Hound argued in a court filing.

The Monyaks reject those arguments, as do their backers, including the Animal Legal Defense Fund. A property owner’s ability to incur costs for repair is not usually an issue in other property damage cases, they say, and allowing “non-economic damages” would help people whose pets, unlike Lola, died before they could be treated.

What’s more, the Monyaks say, the kennel’s argument is hypocritical: Such places profit off human-animal bonds and people’s willingness to spend money on their pets, and now they argue that a rescue dog has no value?

“The amount people spend on pets would be irrational if they didn’t have a value greater than their market value,” Bob Monyak said. “No one would spend $1,000 to fix a $10 toaster.”

Barking Hound Village’s lawyer, Joel McKie, told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that the kennel was “sympathetic” to the Monyaks but said the company was not at fault. In its brief, the company summed up its view of Lola like this: She was free, she never generated revenue, and the Monyaks didn’t do anything that increased her value to the public.

“The mixed-breed dachshund had no special training or unique characteristics,” the kennel argued, “other than that of ‘family dog.'”

Read more:

Cesar Millan, the ‘Dog Whisperer,’ cleared after animal cruelty investigation

Would you park your dog in a locker while you eat brunch?

Scientists still don’t know how dogs became dogs — but they might be close to finding out

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

national

health-science

animalia





Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

national

health-science

animalia





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

