The world is sleepwalking into a fresh crisis as investors start to lose faith in policymakers’ ability to revive the global economy, according to the International Monetary Fund.

In its bluntest warning to date on the costs of policy inaction, the IMF said “financial and economic stagnation" could take hold unless governments prevented a "pernicious feedback loop of fragile confidence, weaker growth, low inflation and rising debt burdens" from forming.

José Viñals, the head of the IMF's financial stability division, said a prolonged slowdown could knock around 4pc off global output relative to current expectations over the next five years amid repeated bouts of market turmoil.

Mr Viñals said a $1.3 trillion (£912bn) corporate debt timebomb in China also posed "potentially serious challenges" to financial stability if defaults pushed banks over the edge.

The IMF's global financial stability report said a "loss of market confidence" would drag global bourses into a bear market.

Under this scenario, Stocks in the UK, US, eurozone and China would lose a fifth of their value over two years, it estimated.

The triple threat of slower growth, rising risks from China and diminished faith in policymakers' ability to prevent a fresh downturn meant households and businesses were likely to save more and spend less in the uncertain global environment.

Economic powerhouses such as China and India would see output losses of more than 4pc by 2021 compared with current IMF forecasts, it said, while world output world be 3.9pc lower relative to the baseline.

“This would be roughly equivalent to foregoing one year of global growth, said Mr Viñals.

Low inflation and nominal growth would also push debt burdens in struggling countries such as Greece and Japan to fresh highs.

This would "entrench secular stagnation worldwide" the IMF warned.

Mr Viñals called for a "more balanced and potent policy mix for improving the growth and inflation outlook".

He urged policymakers in the eurozone to help banks deal with an "elevated" number of so-called non-performing loans - where debtors are usually three months behind on payments.

In China, the IMF called for an end to implicit subsides that allowed zombie companies to remain in business. It also said Beijing should equip regulators with the tools needed to police China's increasingly complex financial system.

“Much is at stake. Additional measures are needed to deliver a more balanced and potent policy mix. If not, market turmoil may recur and intensify, said Mr Viñals.

"Monetary policy was becoming "overburdened", the IMF said. Growth-friendly fiscal policies and wider reform would be needed to support the recovery and boost investment and consumption.

Doing this would lead to a "successful normalisation", where a rebound in economic risk taking and confidence encourages spending and "accelerates smooth exits" from the extended period of record low interest rates.

“Monetary policy remains crucial but cannot be the only game in town," said Mr Viñals.

The IMF said there were signs of “widespread and rising corporate stress” among Chinese corporates that were taking longer to pay their bills and struggling to roll over existing debt.

It estimated that around 15.5pc of total commercial bank loans to the corporate sector - worth around $1.3 trillion - were "at risk" of default because companies did not earn enough income to afford interest payments.

Potential bank losses on these loans could be as high as $756bn - or 7pc of China’s GDP. The IMF described this as "substantial".

It highlighted that the average time taken for listed companies in China to pay their suppliers had grown to 72 days in 2015, from 53 days in 2011.

The IMF said strong underlying growth in the economy and existing bank buffers meant China had the capacity to absorb these losses.

However, it warned that continued implicit subsidies by the state could stunt future growth and increase financial stability risks.

Chinese corporate bond debt issuance had climbed sharply in recent months, the IMF noted.

While steps to liberalise China's bond market were welcome, expanding access to foreign investors and domestic firms could result in a credit crunch if damaged investor confidence caused markets to seize up.

The IMF urged China to use its "ambitious policy agenda" to encourage faster corporate write-offs of bad debt and eliminate implicit government guarantees.

It also urged Beijing to resist intervening in Chinese stock markets to prop up prices.

© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

