

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Donald Trump had Megyn Kelly met over lunch Wednesday at Trump Tower, and everyone's buzzing about it.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Trump and Kelly: Are they still fighting? (Photo: AFP/Getty Images)

Update: Fox News issued a statement detailing that its chairman and CEO, Roger Ailes, has spoken to Donald Trump over the past three months about appearing on a May 23 Fox Broadcasting special with Megyn Kelly. The results of the meeting, which was requested by Kelly, will be discussed Wednesday night on Fox News' The Kelly File. 
Donald Trump and Megyn Kelly met over lunch Wednesday at Trump Tower, and everyone's buzzing about it.

So what's it all mean that Kelly swung by to talk with Trump, the Republican front-runner who feuded with her and Fox News for the better part of the past year?

Well, that's hard to say.

Kelly, whom Trump has called "crazy" and "highly overrated," entered Trump Tower at 11 a.m., NBC News reported, and left about an hour later.

Trump's representatives had no immediate comment for CNN, nor did Kelly's employers at Fox News, which has accused Trump of having an "extreme, sick obsession" with Kelly.

CNN cited an unnamed source who said Kelly initiated the meeting.

Kelly planned to discuss the meeting on her program Wednesday night, reported CNN, raising the possibility that the anchor could have a sit-down interview with Trump in the future.

Trump has feuded with many, many people (even the Pope) over the course of his campaign, but few proved as controversial as his spat with Kelly.

The front-runner turned on Kelly after she questioned his controversial remarks about women during a GOP debate, a question Trump found the unfair. He has lambasted Kelly regularly in the months since and even skipped a debate because she was co-moderating it.

Kelly has scarcely responded, leaving the feud fairly one-sided. "I neither like nor dislike him," she said.

Weeks ago, Kelly spoke perhaps presciently to Variety about whether she'd ever interview Trump again.



"To be honest, every time I prepare an invitation to sit down with him, he attacks me on Twitter or elsewhere. I had always been hoping I could reach out to him at a time when he wasn’t angry. I don’t think it would be a good interview if he was angry at me — but then he never stops with the attacks. I was just about to ask him to sit down with me two weeks ago, but then he started up again out of the blue."

So is Trump still angry with Kelly? CNN did the investigative work to find out.

"He has not attacked Kelly via Twitter since April 1," the network reported.

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

USA TODAY

Trump vs. everyone: A brief list of the Donald's most bitter feuds

