

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

"Trump hates pierogis," another sign reads. We can all agree this is fun.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

"Trump Hates Pierogies": a psychiatrist's approach to an absurd election, @asmeltz reports https://t.co/U2tzEKwd3h

With just under two weeks until Pennsylvania's presidential primaries, one Pittsburgh-area man has embarked on a smear campaign of falsehoods about front-runner Donald Trump to make sure even Trump's most ardent Steel City supporters question their loyalty.

This anti-Trump campaign comes in the form of yard signs planted in Eric Rickin's lawn, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported.

"Trump Likes Hunt's Ketchup," one reads, a sacrilegious preference in the city Heinz calls home.

"Trump Hates Pierogies," reads another, referring to the delectable Polish dumplings beloved by locals.

"Trump Moved My Parking Chair," another declares, referencing the highly regionalized practice of reserving a parking spot by erecting a folding chair. (I had to Google this.)

Will it stunt Trump's effort in the Keystone State? Probably not, but Rickin said it's more of a statement on the nature of Trump's campaign.

“I feel his whole campaign and his positions are absurd. But when you try to argue with logic, it doesn’t really work,” said Rickin, who told the Post-Gazette he decided to fight “the absurd with absurdity.”

Rickin's signs really pay homage to the trend of polite trolling most famously aimed at San Francisco Giants outfielder Hunter Pence, though Sidney Crosby of Pittsburgh's very own NHL team recently fell victim, too.

Trump is slated to campaign in Pittsburgh on Wednesday. Read more about Rickin's whimsical #StopTrump effort at the Post-Gazette.

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

