

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Jeff Merkley of Oregon is the first senator to back Sanders.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., greets a CWA worker as he arrives to join a Verizon workers picket line on April 13, 2016, in Brooklyn. (Photo: Mary Altaffer, AP)

Bernie Sanders picked up endorsements from the New York City transport workers union Wednesday and from Jeff Merkley of Oregon, the first senator to back him.

And then he walked a New York picket line, saying at an earlier news conference that he wants to “stand against the greed of Verizon” with striking employees who are members of the Communications Workers of America.

“This is a good union day for Bernie,” said Jim Gannon, transport workers union spokesman. “And New York is still a pretty ‘union town.’ Unions still matter here.”

The 42,000-member transport union, whose endorsement came after a 42-1 vote by its executive board, could be an important ally for Sanders ahead of the April 19 primary in New York, where Hillary Clinton has racked up several union endorsements. The union represents workers who operate and maintain the city’s buses and subway system.

USA TODAY

How Hillary Clinton plans to hold off Bernie Sanders in New York

What did they think about the flap over Sanders, a Brooklyn native, telling the NY Daily News that you use a token to get on the subway? (The subway stopped using tokens in 2003.) Or Clinton’s subsequent MetroCard malfunction?

“When was the last time that they would have an opportunity to take the train?” Gannon said. “It has nothing to do with our endorsement.”

In offering support, both the union and Merkley touted Sanders’ efforts to boost the middle class.

“In Bernie Sanders, we see a kindred spirit,” union president John Samuelsen said in a statement. “Bernie Sanders has been fighting against the powers that be in this country (on) behalf of all American workers his entire life.”

The union backed Clinton when she ran for Senate in New York.

Merkley, in a New York Times op-ed, wrote that Clinton would make a “strong and capable president” but that Sanders is “boldly and fiercely” addressing the country’s biggest challenges.

Merkley cited Sanders’ opposition to trade deals and high-risk strategies at big banks, his advocacy for renewable energy and his call for campaign finance reform.

“It has been noted that Bernie has an uphill battle ahead of him to win the Democratic nomination,” Merkley wrote. “But his leadership on these issues and his willingness to fearlessly stand up to the powers that be have galvanized a grass-roots movement.”

