In rich irony, Hillary Clinton blames Bernie Sanders for rigging political system

Trump, Cruz supporters' threat of 3rd-party revolt underscores serious GOP divide

Obama administration snubs Medal of Honor recipients, names warships after liberal politicians

Verizon CEO: Bernie Sanders' views 'contemptible'

Hillary Clinton misleads with Vermont gun claim; even supporters say it's inaccurate

Donald Trump, Megyn Kelly have meeting at Trump's offices

Russian fighter jets, reconnaissance helicopter buzzed U.S. Navy destroyer

29 German soldiers left to join ISIS; army may have dozens more jihadist sympathizers

Bernie Sanders, Hillary Clinton stand with striking Verizon workers

Huma Abedin targeted in latest ISIS hit list; terror group identifies Brussels attackers

Those words you hear from Paul Ryan don’t herald the arrival of a knight in shining armor

Can America change course?

Denouncing their own legacy 

A late lesson about the birds and the bees

The Panama Papers and tax shocks

Don’t expect changes to the convention rules when the Republican National Committee holds its spring meeting next week in Hollywood, Florida, a party official said Wednesday.

Members agreed in a recent conference call that changing the rules now with the looming possibility of a contested convention would give the impression that they were trying to rig the process, said Peter Feaman, a RNC committeeman from Florida and a member of the party’s rules committee.

“The consensus was that the RNC rules committee is going to specifically steer clear of any proposed convention rules changes because we don’t want the RNC perceived as somehow wanting to manipulate the process one way or another,” he said.

The quarterly meeting next week will be the last time RNC members get together before the Republican National Convention in July in Cleveland.

However, that doesn’t mean the rules won’t be tinkered with before convention ballots are cast. The convention’s own rules committee, which is made up of delegates as well as party officials, will be able to make changes before the convention doors opens.

“Our inclination is to let them do their thing at the convention, and we’re just going to leave it alone next week and not even go there,” Mr. Feaman said.

The rules have become a focus of the Republican contest as the GOP establishment tries to block front-runner Donald Trump from securing the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch the nomination, forcing multiple ballots in Cleveland for rivals Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, Ohio Gov. John Kasich or maybe others from outside the race to seize the nomination.

Much of the speculation about rule changes have focused on Rule 40b, which was adopted at the 2012 Republican National Convention and says candidates must come in with a majority of delegates from at least eight states before they can be nominated and put to a vote.

Only Mr. Trump clearly qualifies right now under Rule 40b, though the other candidates say they will meet the threshold by the convention.

Copyright © 2016 The Washington Times, LLC.  Click here for reprint permission.

S.A. Miller reports from Capitol Hill on politics, policy and political campaigns for The Washington Times. He can be contacted at smiller@washingtontimes.com.

Terms of Use / Privacy Policy

