Advertisement

Advertisement

By AMY CHOZICKAPRIL 13, 2016


The Sweet Maple Cafe in Chicago, famous for its grilled cheese sandwiches and sweet milk biscuits, typically closes each day after the lunch rush. But one evening in November, the restaurant opened for an unusual private dinner.

The mothers of Michael Brown, Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner and Tamir Rice, and a half-dozen other black women who had lost children in clashes with the police or in gun violence, were flown in from around the country and invited to gather around a table. They were joined by Hillary Clinton, who asked them, one by one, to tell her their stories.

“She took her pad and her ink pen, she wrote her own notes, and she asked us what did we need,” said Maria Hamilton, whose son Dontre was shot 14 times by a white Milwaukee police officer in 2014.

Mrs. Clinton appeared “visibly hurt” as the mothers spoke, said Lucia McBath, whose 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was fatally shot after playing loud music in his car in 2012.

The gathering, held without aides or journalists present, stretched into a nearly three-hour dinner over pork chops and gravy, fried okra and rice. After dessert of apple pie, Mrs. Clinton encouraged the women to organize and travel the country with her campaign.

Advertisement

“You are the mothers of the children who are dying in the streets,” Mrs. Clinton told the group, Ms. McBath recalled. “You have a lot of power individually,” she said. “But collectively, you need to come together. The country needs to hear from you.”

Since then, these mothers, many of whom did not know one another before the Clinton campaign flew them to Chicago to convene, have blanketed the primary states, appearing with Mrs. Clinton in churches and barbershops from Ohio to South Carolina. They starred in an ad that aired in Cleveland, Chicago and St. Louis. And the campaign has paid their travel expenses so they could attend the Democratic presidential debates.

Advertisement

“There I was, sitting behind Donna Brazile and in front of Cornel West,” said Geneva Reed-Veal, the mother of Sandra Bland, who died in police custody in Texas last year after an altercation with a state trooper. “Nobody knew we were there.”

The Clinton campaign named this sisterhood forged in the shared loss of a child the “Mothers of the Movement,” and they have become an unlikely linchpin of Mrs. Clinton’s success in the Democratic primary. At campaign stops, Mrs. Clinton introduces them as “a group of mothers who belong to a club no one ever wants to join.” The mothers will arrive in New York this week to help Mrs. Clinton compete in the primary on Tuesday.

Having these women by her side has provided Mrs. Clinton with powerful and deeply sympathetic character witnesses as she makes her case to African-American voters. And they have given her campaign, an often cautious and poll-tested operation, a raw, human and sometimes gut-wrenching feeling.

The presence of the mothers has also proved a shrewd political move that has influenced black leaders and lawmakers to back Mrs. Clinton.

“Those not supporting her are reluctant to go against her, because we led the marches and the rallies on these things and have worked very closely with the mothers,” said the Rev. Al Sharpton, whose National Action Network is hosting Mrs. Clinton and her opponent in the Democratic primary, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, for a discussion of civil rights issues at its annual conference this week in New York. “It certainly influences how we related to her campaign,” added Mr. Sharpton, who has not endorsed a candidate.

On Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton received the biggest applause of an otherwise lukewarm reception at Mr. Sharpton’s convention when she introduced Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin, and Gwen Carr, the mother of Eric Garner, at the event.

Advertisement

Mr. Sanders has the support of Mr. Garner’s daughter, Erica; the director Spike Lee; Mr. West; and other prominent black figures, and he talks frequently about being arrested in the 1960s while marching for civil rights. But the mothers have allowed Mrs. Clinton to “really tap into the pulse of the black community,” said Representative Yvette D. Clarke, Democrat of New York, who has endorsed Mrs. Clinton.

“The other candidate on the Democratic side did not reach out to us,” Annette Nance-Holt, whose 16-year-old son, Blair Holt, was shot on a Chicago bus in 2007, said at a campaign event last month. She explained starkly that she was not swayed by Mr. Sanders’s promise of free college “because my child is dead.”

Mrs. Clinton’s outreach to the women began early, even before she officially announced she was running for president, and has continued throughout her campaign.

In December, Ms. Reed-Veal, the mother of Ms. Bland, received a Christmas card in the mail. “I know this is the first holiday without your baby,” the neat cursive handwriting read. “Just know, I’m thinking of you.” It was signed, “Hillary.” She received another note from Mrs. Clinton when a grand jury declined to indict anyone in her daughter’s death.

Sign up here to join a deep and provocative exploration of race with New York Times journalists. Coming soon.

That kind of personal touch inspired Ms. Reed-Veal to join Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. At a black church in Milwaukee last month, sitting on stage next to the candidate, she told her story and implored the city’s black residents to vote for Mrs. Clinton.

“Drive up to the corner where that young man is standing with his pants hanging down, and if he is 18 or older, take his hand and make him vote,” Ms. Reed-Veal said. “Make that young man know that people died for him. Make him understand that.”

For many of the mothers, supporting Mrs. Clinton meant absolving her of the pain caused by policies of her husband, former President Bill Clinton, including a 1994 crime bill that built more prisons, put 100,000 additional police officers on the streets and increased sentences for nonviolent drug offenses.

Ms. Garner, who made an ad for Mr. Sanders, said Mrs. Clinton was “constantly throwing around my dad’s name” but had previously “called people like my dad ‘superpredators.’” Mrs. Clinton used the term in 1996 to describe urban gang members and has since said she regrets doing so. And last week, Mr. Clinton faced intense backlash after he drowned out the chants of Black Lives Matter protesters.

Advertisement

“She’s not her husband,” Ms. Nance-Holt said in an interview. “She’s her own woman.”

The mothers must also contend with critics who say that Mrs. Clinton’s early and frequent outreach is a cynical ploy to woo black voters, who have largely swayed the primary in her favor. “People go around and say, ‘You’re being pimped by the secretary,’” Ms. Reed-Veal said. “Who in the heck is going to exploit us?”

Mrs. Clinton shows a different side when she is around the mothers. She talks less and seems more maternal, growing teary and turning to Scripture in response to the women’s pain. “Let us not grow weary of doing good, because in due time we will harvest if we stay focused,” she often says, paraphrasing Galatians 6:9.

“No one can deny that Bernie Sanders has just as much sympathy and compassion, but God put us in all sorts of packages,” said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, who is supporting Mrs. Clinton. “He doesn’t look like compassion. He looks like a guy raising hell on TV.”

The events at which the mothers appear unleash emotional reactions. At Tabernacle Community Baptist Church in Milwaukee last month, a woman in the congregation wailed as the other mothers told their stories. “When we heard those screams, we knew,” said Ms. Nance-Holt, who had driven from Chicago to campaign for Mrs. Clinton. “That was the sound when your child has been murdered.”

After the event, the campaign brought the woman backstage to meet Mrs. Clinton. The candidate listened intently to her story, and then promised to follow up.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

See More »

Go to Home Page »

