

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Prosecutors want the former House Speaker to be be sentenced up to six months in prison.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Former Republican Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert is due in court on Wednesday, April 27, 2016, for sentencing. Hastert pleaded guilty in October to one count of illegal structuring of bank withdrawals.(Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)

CHICAGO — Former speaker Dennis Hastert will learn on Wednesday whether his stunning fall from grace will also include prison time for bank fraud that he committed as part of an effort to cover up an accusation of sexually abusing a 14-year-old boy.

Hastert, who was the longest serving GOP speaker in history, pleaded guilty in October to one count of making illegally structured withdrawals to avoid triggering banking laws that would have required his banks to report the transactions.

Prosecutors have asked U.S. District Judge Thomas Durkin to sentence Hastert to up to six months in federal prison for the charge.

Attorneys for the former lawmaker — who was once second in line of succession to the presidency — say that Hastert, 74, has already suffered public humiliation, his legacy has been tarnished and that sentencing him to probation with no prison time is appropriate. Hastert’s lawyers have also noted that the former lawmaker suffered a small stroke after his October guilty plea and also been hospitalized for a blood infection.

Federal prosecutors were able to wring a guilty plea from Hastert for evading post 9/11 bank laws that he championed during his time as House speaker. But the allegations of sexual abuse of teenage boys — incidents for which the statutes of limitation have long expired—from when Hastert was a high school wrestling coach and social studies teacher have loomed large in the case.

Hastert has acknowledged making the withdrawals to pay someone identified in court documents as “Individual A” for past misconduct.

Federal prosecutors and Individual A’s attorney say the illegal withdrawals by Hastert were part of a deal to pay $3.5 million to a man who says he was sexually molested by Hastert during his time at Yorkville High School before he launched his political career in the early 1980s.

USA TODAY

Dennis Hastert sued by former student he allegedly molested

In addition to Individual A, prosecutors allege that Hastert had sexually abused at least four other teenage boys in his charge as wrestling coach at Yorkville High School, west of Chicago.

His legal team, led by Thomas Green, says Hastert is “deeply sorry and apologizes for his misconduct that occurred decades ago and the resulting harm he caused to others.”

But Hastert has yet to directly address the allegations of sexual abuse, and his attorneys have questioned whether what happened to the 14-year-old Individual A in the hotel room—he says Hastert massaged his genitals after he complained earlier in the day of a groin pull and then asked the boy to give him a massage—amounts to sexual abuse.

“While undoubtedly many would consider this episode as described by (Individual A), consisting of a groin rub for a groin pull and a massage, to be misconduct, we are not so certain that the incident qualifies as sexual misconduct, especially for a coach and trainer forty-two years ago,” the attorneys said in their pre-sentencing filing.

USA TODAY

Tom DeLay, ex-CIA director ask judge to go easy on Dennis Hastert

Earlier this week, Individual A filed a civil lawsuit against Hastert for breach of contract for failing to pay more than half of the $3.5 million agreement that was hatched years earlier. Individual A’s attorney, Kristi Browne, took issue with Hastert’s lawyers’ contention that the conduct with the teenage boy might not have amounted to sexual misconduct.

“I think that’s kind of ridiculous under the circumstances,” Browne told USA TODAY. “He’s admitted that he did it.”

In addition to Individual A, federal prosecutors say they heard from three other men who say Hastert abused them when they were teens on Yorkville High wrestling teams coached by Hastert as well as the sister of a former team manager for Hastert who says her late brother told her that he was also sexually abused by Hastert.

Individual A will not testify at Wednesday's sentencing hearing. But the sister of the team manager, Jolene Burdge, and one of the men who said he was abused as a teen—and is identified in court documents as Individual D—are expected to testify at the sentencing hearing, according to federal prosecutors.

Individual D, who was 17 at the time of the alleged incident, has told prosecutors that Hastert performed a sex act on him in a school locker room

Hastert’s legal team says their client does not contest Individual D’s allegations, but they say that Hastert also does not recall the incident.

USA TODAY

Ex-Speaker Hastert  expresses regret, wants probabtion in hush money case

USA TODAY

Voices: Kid-glove treatment for former House speaker? 

It’s unclear whether Hastert, who was allowed by Judge Durkin to skip many of the court hearings ahead of his guilty plea, will choose to speak on his own behalf during sentencing.

But many people from Hastert’s past, including campaign aides, people who knew from his time as a wrestling coach, and family members, have written to Judge Durkin and asked that he show some leniency to the former speaker. Several of his old colleagues in the  House also have wrote to the judge on Hastert’s behalf.

“We all have our flaws, but Dennis Hastert has very few. He is a good man that loves the lord. He gets his integrity and values from Him,” DeLay wrote to Durkin. “He doesn't deserve what he is going through. I ask that you consider the man that is before you and give him leniency where you can.”

Prosecutors recommended a maximum of a six month sentence for the illegal structuring charge, which under sentencing guidelines comes with a maximum of five years in prison.

During a hearing earlier this month, Durkin expressed frustration that, according to prosecutors, Hastert—through an attorney—had falsely suggested he was being extorted by Individual A soon after authorities first approached Hastert to question him about the illegal structuring.

Federal agents asked Hastert to record conversations with Individual A after he had suggested through legal counsel he was being extorted. In those conversations and subsequent with interview Individual A, authorities determined that Hastert was not being extorted and had, in fact, rejected Individual A’s suggestion that they get lawyers involved to hammer out the settlement.

Durkin suggested that Hastert’s conduct with federal authorities could impact the sentence he hands down.

“That's not conduct that's 40 years old," Durkin said. "That's conduct that's less than a year old."

Follow USA TODAY Chicago correspondent Aamer Madhani on Twitter: @AamerISmad

