 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

It was the gaffe heard ’round social media.

Donald Trump was having a pretty great Tuesday night. He swept five Republican primaries, beat pundits’ expectations and declared himself Republicans’ “presumptive nominee.” Then, he proceeded to make several comments that will be a gift — a gift — to Hillary Clinton if the two face each other in the general election.

In case you missed it, here’s what Trump said:

I think the only card [Clinton] has is the woman’s card. She’s got nothing else going on. And frankly, if Hillary Clinton were a man, I don’t think she’d get 5 percent of the vote. The only thing she’s got going on is the women’s card. And the beautiful thing is women don’t like her, okay? And look how well I did with women tonight.

For a candidate that badly trails Clinton among women, these are bold remarks. And they were jaw-dropping to political Twitter, particularly its Democrats.

Here’s a sampling of the reaction from political officials — current and former — as well as journalists and commentators:

.@realDonaldTrump, If @HillaryClinton were a man, she would have been POTUS 25 years ago! #givemeabreak

— Patti Solis Doyle (@PattiSolisDoyle) April 27, 2016



Because being a woman has historically been a huge advantage over billionaire white males https://t.co/lDhouWfWsA

— Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) April 27, 2016



And … his gender gap just went up to 80% https://t.co/XToXNjFHlD

— Ben White (@morningmoneyben) April 27, 2016



Trump is the best Clinton surrogate ever

— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) April 27, 2016



When America's women heard Trump say "If Hillary Clinton were a man" #IfHillaryWasAMan pic.twitter.com/L3xwu8Njig

— Oliver Willis (@owillis) April 27, 2016



You hear Trump hitting trade, stagnating wages & you wonder. But then he trashes Clinton as having it easy because she's a women. Nope.

— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) April 27, 2016



The 19th amendment could be Trump's undoing.

— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) April 27, 2016



.@realDonaldTrump says "if @HillaryClinton were a man I don't think she'd get 5% of the vote." See, girls? You have all the advantages.

— Paul Begala (@PaulBegala) April 27, 2016



It takes a lot of chutzpah and/or delusion for Trump to say that women hate Hillary Clinton.

— David Corn (@DavidCornDC) April 27, 2016



Tonight we saw interesting Trump who could beat Clinton AND oafish big-mouthed Trump who will get creamed by her. https://t.co/s3SGJt3Txn

— Jim Antle (@jimantle) April 27, 2016



Good point, @realDonaldTrump, who would ever vote for a male Clinton seeking the presidency?

— Conor Friedersdorf (@conor64) April 27, 2016



HRC actually DOES have problems with many women voters. BUT, Trump attacks tonight aren’t the way to exploit that weakness.

— amy walter (@amyewalter) April 27, 2016



Trump’s plan to appeal to a general election audience is ending every presser with an impassioned sexist riff.

— Tommy Vietor (@TVietor08) April 27, 2016



These users weren’t the only ones who reacted strongly. Check out the Vine of the night in which Mary Pat Christie, wife of Trump endorser Chris Christie, seems to roll her eyes at Trump’s comments:

The business mogul was not backing down as of early Wednesday. Here’s a look at some of his comments on the morning shows:

Trump is doubling down on his 'woman card' comments about Clinton this morning. Here's how he answered q's about it: pic.twitter.com/MzjAsOCA3T

— Jose A. DelReal (@jdelreal) April 27, 2016



And, as a bonus, Clinton’s reaction on Instagram:

 Caught your speech, @realDonaldTrump. About that "woman's card"…

A video posted by Hillary Clinton (@hillaryclinton) on Apr 27, 2016 at 7:23am PDT



SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

