

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

"She works hard for the money," he sang of Clinton.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    U.S. Senator Tom Carper channels Donna Summer in call-and-response speech during a rally for Hillary Clinton in Wilmington Monday.
    Damian Giletto/The News Journal

U.S. Sen. Tom Carper, D-Delaware, on Tuesday offered no comment on an awkward sing-along and inaccurate comments he made at a pre-primary campaign event for Hillary Clinton in Wilmington Monday.

Carper during a rally at World Café Live at the Queen on Market Street offered support for the presidential candidate with a rendition of the Donna Summer classic "She Works Hard For the Money."

"We're going to channel Donna Summer her for a minute, OK? Here we go!" he half-shouted to the crowd of an estimated 700. "This is the audience participation part of the show."

And then, in a sing-songy moment, said: "She works hard for the money. So hard for the money. She works hard for the money, so we'd better treat her right."

The crowd joined in.

"Tomorrow we're going to treat her right tomorrow?" Carper asked the crowd. "She will treat this country right."

He also called Clinton a former governor and member of the House of Representatives, neither of which is true.

Video of Carper's 10-minute speech spread on social media and was picked up by several media outlets, where commentators pointed out the irony of the song being referenced. Clinton's income and money made from speeches she made to Goldman Sachs and other big firms has been a reoccurring campaign issue with opponent U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, of Vermont.

Carper press secretary Katie Wilson in an email Tuesday said the senator was in session in Washington, D.C., Tuesday and would not be able to discuss the rally before the end of the day. She added that he would be releasing a statement about "the primary results in general," but not his comments about Clinton.

Carper, who is a superdelegate in the primary, served with Clinton in the U.S. Senate between 2001 and 2009, when she became secretary of state.

Carper during the speech Monday also referred to Sanders, who also is a Senate colleague. The senator attested that he has, on occasion, "felt the Bern." He also had the crowd chant "Joe-Bama, Joe-Bama," a reference to President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden.

Clinton was about an hour late to the rally and Carper and other officials spoke until the candidate arrived.

STORY: Hillary Clinton rallies Delaware crowd ahead or primary 

Sen. Tom Carper checks to vote at P.S. duPont Middle School on Tuesday morning (Photo: JENNIFER CORBETT/THE NEWS JOURNAL)



Carper hasn't been the only one to get confused. Both Clinton's daughter and husband have either goofed or glossed over parts of her resume and platform, reports show. And Paul Brewer, director at the University of Delaware's Center for Political Communication, says Carper's speech isn't likely to have a negative impact on Clinton's campaign.

"In my own professional opinion, he probably doesn't have a future as an R&B singer," Brewer said with a chuckle. More seriously, "It wasn't the candidate herself. It was her surrogate. I don't think it will be really controversial or harmful to her campaign."

Maybe if he has to do it over again, Carper should pick a different song, Brewer said. But this is nothing like Marco Rubio's disastrous "Marcobot" debate gaffe – Rubio repeated a memorized 25-second speech three times in a row, making himself look like a robot.

Clinton herself was on point Monday and is expected to win the primary in Delaware.

The incident is unlikely to affect Carper's political career either, Brewer said.

"It was a funny, little awkward moment of laughter," he said. But in past polling by the center, "his approval rating has always been quite high."

In fact, some of Carper's past "antics" have only made people like him even more. In 2012, he hopped up on a table to do several push-ups, not only provoking laughs but dispelling rumors he was in bad health.

Check it:

USA TODAY

Clinton, de Blasio racially charged joke draws barbs

