 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

 HUNTINGTON, W.Va. — When Bernie Sanders steps back out on the campaign trail in Indiana on Wednesday, he may look and sound much the same. But he will be operating in a new reality, one in which he has virtually no chance of catching Hillary Clinton in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.

The senator from Vermont seemed to acknowledge his dwindling fortunes in a statement issued late Tuesday night, in which he suggested another rationale for staying in the race after losing four of five Eastern primary states: shaping the Democratic party platform.

“This campaign is going to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia with as many delegates as possible to fight for a progressive party platform,” Sanders said, listing many of the proposals that have been at the core of a campaign that has exceeded every expectation since the self-described democratic socialist senator from Vermont launched his longshot bid nearly a year ago.

 [Sanders fundraising email includes photo of the Clintons at Donald Trump’s wedding] 

In an interview, Jeff Weaver, Sanders’s campaign manager, said he still sees a “mathematical possibility” of catching Clinton, saying Sanders is poised to go on a winning streak and will continue to try to convince the party’s superdelegates that he would be the stronger Democratic candidate against Republican front-runner Donald Trump in the fall.

“There will be a lot of obituary writers out there, but we’re going to enter a number of states where he can make a run,” Weaver said. “He’s going to win the vast majority of contests in May and into June, and he’s going to enter the convention with a tremendous amount of momentum.”

However, even if Sanders wins some of the upcoming states, the race is now all about delegates, and he would need not only to win, but win by huge margins to erase Clinton’s lead.

The aim is likely much the same for Sanders whether he is seeking to become the nominee or influence Clinton’s platform: The more delegates he takes to the convention, the greater influence his aides think he will have crafting Democratic priorities or otherwise influencing Clinton.

One of the biggest questions looming now is whether Sanders will alter his tone on the trail. At an election-night rally here in West Virginia on Tuesday night, Sanders dialed back his criticism of Clinton considerably, perhaps offering a preview of what he said in his statement will be an “issue-oriented” campaign in the remaining 14 states.

 [Facing long odds for the Democratic nomination, Sanders remains a big draw on the trail] 

But Sanders’s camp has also played hardball with Clinton as recently as Tuesday. As voters were going to the polls in the five states — Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, Delaware and Rhode Island — his campaign emailed a fundraising solicitation that featured a photo of the Clintons attending Trump’s wedding.

The same day, Sanders’s wife, Jane, who serves as a political adviser, was on TV saying that her husband would release more of the couple’s past tax returns once Clinton releases the transcripts of her paid Wall Street speeches.

Weaver said there are no plans for Sanders to alter his message on the trail. He chose to campaign Tuesday night in West Virginia, a state that holds its primary in two weeks. His Wednesday schedule included two stops in Indiana, which votes next Tuesday.

“I suspect the speech you hear at the next few events will be markedly similar to the speech you’ve heard at the last few events,” he said during the interview late Tuesday night.

Clinton’s campaign will be watching closely to see if Sanders strikes a more conciliatory tone in coming weeks. Her aides are aware of the challenges they face in wooing many of Sanders’s supporters, who view Clinton as part of the political establishment he is challenging.

 [Clinton prepares for tough fight in Indiana, pivots to trade] 

At Tuesday night’s rally here, Suzanne Hornsby, a retired art teacher, said she is still “praying” that Sanders will become the Democratic nominee and said she was heartened by the roughly 6,500 people who turned out to see him. Even as Sanders’s odds have grown longer, his rallies have remained big, boisterous affairs.

If Sanders does not prevail over Clinton, Hornsby, 67, said she is prepared to write his name in during the general election.

“A lot of us are ‘Bernie or bust,’ ” Hornsby said, adding that she’s turned off by Clinton. “She keeps changing her views to suit whoever she’s talking to.”

The math for Sanders has become all but insurmountable.

With her four wins Tuesday night, including by wide margins in Pennsylvania and Maryland, the two states with the most at stake, Clinton has increased her lead in the delegate count to close to 300.

Moreover, she has an overwhelming lead among superdelegates, the Democratic elected officials and other party insiders who get a say in the nomination and are not bound to the outcomes of nominating contests in their states. As of Tuesday, Clinton’s advantage among superdelegates who have committed publicly was 519 to 39.

Prior to Clinton’s decisive victory last week in New York, Sanders had won seven of eight consecutive state nominating contests, a streak Weaver argued could be replicated in coming weeks, as the calendar once again becomes more favorable to his candidate.

Weaver argued that a strong finish by Sanders — including a dominating win June 7 in California, the largest trove of Democratic delegates — could prompt many superdelegates to change their allegiances.

Others see that proposition as fanciful.

In his remarks Tuesday night, Sanders emphasized that many state and national polls have shown him beating Trump in a general election by a greater margin than Clinton.

Sanders and his aides also argue that his performance among independent voters is something that superdelegates should consider.

On Tuesday, the state Sanders won, Rhode Island, was the only one of the five that allowed independent voters to participate in the Democratic primary. In most of the contests to date where unaffiliated voters can cast ballots, they have sided with Sanders by lopsided margins.

Sanders has made no secret that he would like to see all primaries and caucuses opened up — another point he could try to push at the nominating convention in July.

But in his speech Tuesday, Sanders also peppered his words with a degree of resignation about what the future holds.

“This campaign is not just about electing a president,” he told his followers. “It is about transforming our nation. It is about having the courage to demand a political revolution, and you are the revolutionaries.”



politics















Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

