

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Everything you need to know about the Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island primaries.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    See how the GOP and Democratic candidates did in the Northeast, including Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Maryland, Delaware, and Rhode Island.
    VPC

Republican front-runner Donald Trump picked up victories in every primary Tuesday: Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. The New York real estate mogul was expected to notch big wins, given his leads in polling leading into the contests. Now the question is, how big will they be?

"This is a bigger win than we expected — all five," he told supporters at his election night rally.

Trump said he considers himself the "presumptive nominee" at this point, though he plans to continue campaigning hard in the remaining states, and he called Ohio Gov. John Kasich a "spoiled child" for staying in the GOP race after winning only one state.

"It's like a spoiled person that says 'I'm just staying, for whatever reason,' " he said.

Trump, who has been complaining that the delegate allocation process has been rigged against him, said Tuesday's victories are like knockouts in the boxing ring —you don't have to wait for a decision after the fight.

"The best way to beat the system is to have evenings like this," he said.

"We are really honored by this night."

Cruz dismissed the results before they were announced, saying at a rally in Indiana that the Northeast is Trump's home territory and that his campaign now  "moves back to more favorable terrain" starting next week in Indiana and ending June 7 in California.

Kasich sent out a fundraising tweet, urging people to "Do your part to keep John Kasich's campaign moving ahead."

Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump speak at their respective primary night events on April 26, 2016. (Photo: Getty Images)

On the Democratic side, Hillary Clinton won Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania and Connecticut, while Bernie Sanders notched a victory in Rhode Island.

Clinton signaled to supporters in Philadelphia that she understands the angst with the status quo that has animated the presidential race on both sides.

"Look I know there are still too many barriers holding too many Americans back," she said, adding that she intends to restore Americans' confidence "by delivering results."

"Together we are going to come together and we are going to solve the problems," Clinton vowed.

She also recounted how Trump earlier Tuesday accused her of playing the "woman card" to get elected and said if fighting for the middle class and equal pay for women means playing the woman card, then, "Deal me in."

Sanders' campaign signaled he isn't going anywhere, issuing a statement extolling his "resounding" victory in Rhode Island.

“I congratulate Secretary Clinton on her victories tonight, and I look forward to issue-oriented campaigns in the 14 contests to come," Sanders said.

He vowed to take his campaign all the way to the Democratic convention in order to amass as many delegates as possible to try and ensure progressive initiatives are included in the party platform, including breaking up the big banks, instituting universal health care and making public colleges and universities tuition-free.

"That’s why we are in this race until the last vote is cast," Sanders vowed.

Scroll down for more Northeast primary day happenings.

It seems a digital communications aide in the Clinton campaign had a little time on his hands Tuesday night and so crunched some numbers on Republicans' win-loss records after Trump’s clean sweep:

After Trump's sweep tonight, your GOP standings:TRUMP......26-16CRUZ........11-31KASICH.....1-41

When a protester interrupts him at a rally in Indiana Tuesday, the Texas senator took the opportunity to sermonize on appropriate protester treatment.

Things got physical in the crowd after a protester interrupted Cruz's speech in Indiana earlier tonighthttps://t.co/Gq74os96dL

Someone decided to name them the "Acela" primaries after the train that runs between the states voting, but it appears the name was a little parochial — newscasters outside the Northeast apparently had no idea how to pronounce it:

Another @MattNegrin special: 14 news anchors who can't pronounce "Acela primary" on this big dayhttps://t.co/gvtN8UdjSj

Calling it the Acela Primary is a great way to highlight the great chasm between political/media class and the rest of America

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is feeling Elizabeth Warren.

Pressed on MSNBC on Tuesday about whether he would pick a woman as a running mate, he floated her name as a potential VP pick.

“I think it’s a little bit early for speculating on that,” Sanders said, before he proceeded to speculate.

“Elizabeth Warren, I think, has been a real champion in standing up for working families taking on Wall Street,” he said. Then he added: “There are other fantastic women who have been active in all kinds of fights who I think would make great vice presidential candidates.”

He didn’t name any others, though.

Warren, a darling of progressives much like the Bern, so far has remained neutral in the Democratic primary race, although she has said she’s “cheering Bernie on.”

Variety’s lead story Tuesday looked at the presidential race taking over pop culture and candidates embracing celebrity, and guess who graced the cover?

Media monster: Presidential race takes over pop culture (COVER STORY) https://t.co/WxZMEIWdFhpic.twitter.com/Si6TLI2Pfl

Melania Trump said a few weeks ago that she wished her husband would stop retweeting, saying she thinks that’s where he gets into trouble. “If he would only listen,” she said.

Well, after a very unscientific review of The Donald’s Twitter feed Tuesday, we were able to confirm that it had been exactly seven days since he unleashed a barrage of retweets, some from supporters whose views and vitriol might get him in hot water (as when he retweeted an unflattering picture of Ted Cruz’s wife next to a glamorous photo of Melania).

He instead retweeted only a select few well-known users: The Drudge Report, Newt Gingrich and YouTubers Diamond and Silk. And his feed was littered with positive campaign videos and memes thanking supporters in various states.

Oh, and, of course, his own vitriol. In the previous 48 hours, he had lobbed criticism at his opponents in the GOP field, who had announced they were teaming up in an effort to stop him from winning the nomination.

Lyin' Ted Cruz and 1 for 38 Kasich are unable to beat me on their own so they have to team up (collusion) in a two on one. Shows weakness!

Kasich just announced that he wants the people of Indiana to vote for him. Typical politician - can't make a deal work.

The Cruz-Kasich pact is under great strain. This joke of a deal is falling apart, not being honored and almost dead. Very dumb!

And just for good measure Tuesday, he also whacked The New York Times:

How bad is the New York Times—the most inaccurate coverage constantly. Always trying to belittle. Paper has lost its way!

The Republican National Committee, which has faced accusations from Trump and his supporters that the party’s nomination process is rigged, felt the need to release videos Tuesday explaining the delegate-allocation process in each of the five states voting.

“These videos are part of our effort to continue to educate voters on how the primary process works,” spokeswoman Lindsay Walters wrote in an email announcing the release.

It’s unclear, though, whether the explanations of mind-numbing minutiae such as “Plurality vote winner in each respective district receives CD delegates” will clear things up.

But here’s the videos anyway: Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Rhode Island. And our favorite, Pennsylvania, which tries to explain why most delegates in the state (54 of 71 total) aren't bound by what voters decided Tuesday and can instead pick whomever they want:

… was stumping for the Democratic National Committee. In an email, at least. In a missive sent by “Barack Obama” Tuesday and addressed to “Friend," the president said he has spent the primary season observing the candidates and determined “this has been a difficult period for the Republicans.”

“They're trying to figure out what they're standing for — whether they will be the party of building walls and surveilling neighborhoods, whether they will be the party that enshrines discrimination in our laws.”

He goes on to tick off Democratic priorities — addressing climate change, raising the minimum wage, ensuring equal pay for women, and preventing discrimination.

But he did not say which Democrat he is endorsing, despite the email’s subject line, “My vote for president.”

“We have two fine Democratic candidates who, no matter their differences, share this same set of core beliefs that defines our party,” he wrote.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

