 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

Advocates of legislation to combat painkiller and heroin abuse are balking at changes House Republicans have made to a Senate-passed bill, arguing the revisions would compromise drug addiction prevention and recovery programs.

The House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday is scheduled to begin considering legislation to address the opioid crisis, a major priority for members in both chambers this election year.

But there have been simmering tensions between House Republicans and the senators who led the effort to get an opioid bill through the upper chamber over how quickly the House is moving and the specifics of the legislation being proposed.

“Some of the most important ideas are missing from the House Judiciary Committee’s alternative,” Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), who co-authored the Senate’s opioid bill, said on Tuesday. The Senate passed the legislation last month 94-1, and Portman called it “comprehensive. No other bill comes close.”

Portman faces a tough reelection race this year, and he is heavily promoting the opioid bill as part of his campaign.

House leaders have dismissed the concerns, arguing that many of the worries expressed by Portman and advocacy groups are addressed either by expanded grant programs elsewhere in the legislation or under bills being examined by several committees.

“You’ll see streamlining a number of grants,” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said on Tuesday, adding that the overall House bill would be “a real improvement” over the Senate’s legislation.

At issue are how grants for treatment, prevention and recovery programs should be distributed. The House bill seeks to reduce the number of grant programs while giving states and localities more freedom in how they use the federal funds. But advocates of the Senate approach said they are concerned this will deemphasize programs they think are important but are not specifically addressed under the House approach such as youth-focused education campaigns, recovery support centers and programs to collect unused painkillers.

Consolidating programs under one funding umbrella “risks imbalance, as many states and localities seeking funding may only prioritize one or two of these activities,” Harm Reduction Coalition Policy Director Daniel Raymond wrote in a letter to House Judiciary Committee leaders on Monday, one of several advocates to pen alarmed notes to lawmakers.

  [House Republicans playing deadly politics with painkillers — so say some Senate Republicans]  

But House leaders insist their final product will be better than the Senate bill, noting that their bill also puts more money toward the crisis — the House bill authorizes $103 million for programs, compared with the $77 million in the Senate bill.

McCarthy said this week that he planned to put a package of bills on the floor the week of May 9, and that he is already discussing with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) ways to quickly settle differences and send a final product to the president’s desk.

Part of the process, McCarthy stressed, is allowing individual committees to address the parts of opioid legislation that relate to their jurisdiction.

For now, advocates are focusing on initiatives absent from the House legislation that they argue would help improve recovery efforts, especially those that target young people.

“Prevention, treatment and enforcement cannot solve the opiate problem without recovery supports,” Patty McCarthy Metcalf, executive director of Faces & Voices of Recovery, another advocacy organization, said in a statement on Monday.

Mike DeBonis contributed to this story.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

