

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

A conservative political action committee funded in part by the Koch brothers is spending more than $1 million to air television ads attacking Nevada Democratic Senate candidate Catherine Cortez Masto.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

FILE - In this Sept. 24, 2012 file photo, Nevada Attorney Gen. Catherine Cortez Masto speaks to the editorial board at the Las Vegas Sun offices in Henderson, Nev. (Photo: AP Photo, The Las Vegas Sun, Leila Navidi)

WASHINGTON – A conservative political action committee funded in part by the Koch brothers is spending more than $1 million to air television ads attacking Nevada Democratic Senate candidate Catherine Cortez Masto.

Freedom Partners Action Fund, based in Arlington, Va., announced the two ads on Tuesday. One says that when Cortez Masto was attorney general, she hired a Washington law firm to help residents deal with the housing crisis, then reaped thousands in campaign donations from the firm’s attorneys.

The second ad criticizes her travel while in office. Both ads label her a “special interest politician.”

Cortez Masto's campaign immediately fired back.

“Washington Republicans are lying about Catherine Cortez Masto’s record because they know as Nevada’s next senator, she will focus on solving problems for Nevada families, not pushing their extreme agenda,” said campaign spokesman Zach Hudson.

As attorney general, Cortez Masto “held Big Banks accountable and helped deliver $1.9 billion in relief to Nevadans,” Hudson said in a statement. Cortez Masto's travel was in the course of participating in groups of attorneys general around the country.

Hudson went on to criticize Republican candidate Rep. Joe Heck, noting that Heck had called the mortgage crisis a “blip on the radar.”

The two are vying for the seat now held by Democratic Sen. Harry Reid, who is retiring.

Freedom Partners Action Fund is a super PAC that can accept and spend unlimited amounts of money but is barred from coordinating with candidates' campaigns.

Also this week, the fund reported spending $2 million on ads supporting Republican Sen. Ron Johnson’s re-election bid. He is opposed by Democrat Russ Feingold.

The PAC was created in 2014 to focus on supporting candidates who favor “a free market and a free society.”

Charles Koch has given $8 million to the PAC, including $3 million in December 2015. His brother David Koch has given $2 million.

