A mysterious aircraft circling the skies over a motorway in Wales has left drivers perplexed.

Bizarre streams of vapour trails were pictured scattered across the skies as baffled motorists drove along the A55 at Rhuallt near St Asaph this morning.

Another unidentified aircraft, possibly the same one, was also spotted over the Llyn Peninsula.

Some suggest the aircraft could be a commercial flight circling the sky while it waits for clearance to land at a nearby airport.

But a search of two real-time flight information websites found no sign of any aircraft flying over North Wales at the time, the Daily Post reports .

A motorist said: "The aircraft was flying in wide circles as I drove along the A55.

"It made a couple of wide circles and then headed off towards the west.

"I stopped in a layby at Rhuallt to take a picture on my mobile phone."

 Have your say in the comments below


Have your say in the comments below

Read more: 
Strange 'alien structures' captured on Lunar Orbiter circling the Moon 'are evidence of UFO colony'




Vapour trails as seen from Rhuallt




Tweeting a photograph Sandra Barford of Nefyn said: "Weird.. flying in circles over Pwllheli ."

She added the picture was taken at about 9.25am and it appeared there were two aircraft.

Three Hawk aircraft were airborne from RAF Valley this morning but their flight paths were further south and mostly overland although one was seen flying north towards the Isle of Man.














Video loading













Click to play



The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started










Aviation expert Tony Simpson said commercial aircraft circling is unusual suggesting the normal explanation is that there may be a technical problem and is put in a circular holding pattern while the pilots try and sort out the issue.

He added: "But it may be the aircraft is approaching a busy airport earlier than expected and is marking time further away than the usual holding areas."

 

Captain Mario Lopes has been an airline pilot for 27 years, but he says this reunion is the highlight of his long career

The Five hundred meter Aperture Spherical Telescope,or FAST for short, is set to be up and running by September five years after construction began

