The Entire Smith Family Hits the Red Carpet!

Lisa Rinna Changes Her Hairstyle for First Time in 20 Years — See Her Sexy, Darker 'Do

Demi Lovato Reacts to Nicki Minaj's Incredible Side-Eye in Met Gala 2016 Pic

Janet Jackson Is Pregnant at Age 49! 

Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Naked With Gold Medal for 'Sports Illustrated'

Jay Z Working on Album to Tell 'His Side of Things' in Beyonce Marriage

Disney Fans Start Campaign to Give Elsa a Girlfriend in 'Frozen 2'

Chrissy Teigen's Mom Shares New Photos of Baby Luna 

John McCain’s Son Had the Perfect Response to Racists Who Attacked Old Navy’s Interracial Ad 


Exclusive


Now that’s a patriotic streak!

 

Caitlyn Jenner will appear on a summer cover of Sports Illustrated wearing “nothing but an American flag and her Olympic medal,” a source reveals in the latest issue of Us Weekly.







The 66-year-old I Am Cait star (formerly known as Bruce) set a world decathlon record at the 1976 Montreal Summer Games. To celebrate the 40th anniversary of her win, she’ll pose with her gold medal for the first time post-transition, adds the source: “She’s excited about that.” (Her ex-wife Kris appeared topless with a medal during a 2007 photo shoot on Keeping Up With the Kardashians.)

 

Until now, Jenner says, she had stashed her “most prized possession” at the bottom of her makeup drawer.



“I never wanted my kids to feel like they had to have a gold medal in order to be considered a success,” the father of Kylie, 18, Kendall, 20, Brody, 32, Brandon, 34, Casey, 35, and Burt, 37, wrote in an August 2015 blog post. “I didn’t want them to constantly compare their own achievements to my time in the Olympics, so I haven’t displayed my medal.”

Jenner revealed her new name and identity on the July 2015 cover of Vanity Fair, and has since advocated for equality across the LGBTQ community.

 

“I’m very proud of this,” the reality star said of her medal in a video accompanying the blog entry. “That was a great time in my life. But to be honest with you, it’s even a greater time in my life right now with what I’m trying to accomplish.”





The Olympian’s latest triumph came amid the country’s transgender bathroom debate, when GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump, 69, permitted her to use the bathroom of her choice at his properties.

 

“OK, last week Donald Trump said I could take a pee anywhere in a Trump facility, so I am gonna go take a pee in the ladies&apos; room,” Jenner shared on Facebook April 27. "Thank you, Donald. I really appreciate it.”

Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!





You will receive the latest news and updates on your favorite celebrities!




























        .st1{fill:#001722;} .st2{fill:#FFFFFF;}
    








                Don't have an Us Weekly account? 
                Sign up here.
            


Sign In





























        .st1{fill:#001722;} .st2{fill:#FFFFFF;}
    








            Want to be an Us Insider? Sign up for exclusive news about your favorite celebrities and more.
        


            Already a member? Click here.
        




























        .st1{fill:#001722;} .st2{fill:#FFFFFF;}
    










Register


