

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

A sex toy found by a fisherman in a small Indonesian village was taken home, dressed up, and worshipped as an angel for weeks, the BBC reports.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

A sex toy found by a fisherman in a small Indonesian village was taken home, dressed up, and worshipped as an angel for weeks, the BBC reports.(Photo: Screenshot)

(NEWSER) – A sex toy found by a fisherman in a small Indonesian village was taken home, dressed up, and worshipped as an angel for weeks, the BBC reports, proving yet again that the world is a strange and wonderful place.

The fisherman took the doll home to his village of Kalupapi, where it was dressed in a blouse, skirt, and hijab. His parents reportedly changed its clothes every day "as a sign of respect."

According to the San Francisco Chronicle, the 21-year-old fisherman found the inflatable sex doll washed up on a beach in March, though other sources say it was floating at sea.

Regardless, the Times notes the "naked, fair-skinned girl" impressed the fisherman with her "round green eyes and an expression of ambiguous rapture."

FACEBOOK

Ihyan Nusi - Ihyan Nusi added a new photo. | Facebook

Photos of the doll soon spread online, along with rumors that it was a "bidadari," a type of spirit or angel. That rumor was bolstered by a solar eclipse that occurred shortly before the doll was found and reports that it had been crying when the fisherman found it.

Police—afraid of how the population would react to headlines like "Angel in Sulawesi found fallen from the sky, naked and weeping"—launched an investigation. They determined the angel was actually a blowup doll and confiscated it, the Huffington Post reports.

"They have no Internet, they don't know what a sex toy is," an Indonesian police chief explains, per AFP. (A campaign was recently launched to stop the rise of sex robots.)

More from Newser:

NEWSER

The Internet Has a New Most Popular Browser

NEWSER

'$300K Car Crashes 10 Minutes After It's Delivered' Is All This Headline Needs to Say

NEWSER

The Eta Aquarids Meteor Shower Will Put On a Show This Week. Just Don't Blink

