

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Trump’s success “makes us pretty racist” he said of fellow Republicans.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Glenn Beck. (Photo: YouTube/RWW Blog)

Conservative radio host Glenn Beck predicted that the United States won’t “elect another Republican president ever again” after Donald Trump’s ascendency toward the GOP nomination.

Beck mourned the future of the GOP on his show the day after the party declared Trump its presumptive nominee and Ted Cruz – his favored candidate – folded his presidential bid, according to Mediaite.

“Donald Trump is the face of the GOP. Well, that makes us crony capitalists. It makes us wafflers. It makes us pretty racist,” Beck said. “It makes us big government guys. Just, you name it — it makes us that.”

Beck went on to cite Trump’s high unfavorable ratings among Hispanics — 77% in a recent Gallup poll — as one demographic shift that would halt Trump and enable a victory by Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton this November.

Beck continued:



“Because Donald Trump is the GOP candidate, and I believe Hillary Clinton is going to win because of this, you will never elect another GOP person to high office every again.

“Because what’s going to happen is you are now going to have Hillary Clinton legalize as many voters as you can, the GOP is going to be completely racist – whether it’s true or not – because of Donald Trump. You will never have another Republican president ever again.”

Watch a video of Beck’s comments below:

USA TODAY

Looking to November: Clinton leads Trump by double-digits in new poll

