

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Almost half of Americans view Clinton unfavorably. Even more don’t like Trump.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Hillary Clinton. (Photo: Getty Images)

Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by 13 percentage points nationally, according to a CNN/ORC poll released Wednesday.

As both candidates look ahead to a November showdown, Clinton has a 54% to 41% advantage over Trump in a hypothetical matchup — her largest lead over Trump since July, according to the poll.

Voters trust Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, more than Trump, the Republicans' presumptive nominee, on almost every issue surveyed in the poll, including terrorism and immigration.

They trust Clinton more than Trump to handle health care, foreign police, education, the income gap and climate change by margins of 15 points or more, the survey finds.

However, Trump is seen as more trustworthy to handle one key issue: the economy. Nine out of 10 voters see the economy as a critical issue, ranking it as more important than any other in the poll. And they think Trump would do a better job than Clinton addressing it, by a 50% to 45% margin.

Americans don’t seem wild about either candidate overall, though.

Donald Trump. (Photo: Spencer Platt, Getty Images)

Fifty-seven percent of Americans find Trump unfavorable, with 39% deeming him favorable.

Feelings about Clinton were split, with 49% finding her unfavorable and 48% finding her favorable.

More than half of Trump’s supporters (57%) said their votes for him would be more to express opposition to Clinton.

Clinton’s backers were essentially split on their rationale, with 51% saying their votes would represent a vote against Trump.

The poll took place over phone April 28-May 1 and contains feedback from 1,001 adults, including 890 registered voters. The margin of error for the poll is plus or minus 3% and plus or minus 3% among voters.

Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner

