Hillary Clinton: 'Whole world' wants me to beat Donald Trump

Half of immigrant-led households collect welfare as admission rules go unenforced

Massachusetts GOP governor says he won't vote for Trump

Ed Klein: FBI sources believe Hillary Clinton is 'guilty as sin' on emails

Gary Johnson targets #NeverTrump voters after Ted Cruz drops out

Justice Dept. program to no longer use terms 'felon,' 'convict' to refer to criminals: 'Disparaging'

Donald Trump VP: Five potential picks to consider

Ed Henry off the air at Fox News after In Touch report that he cheated on wife

Judge orders top Clinton aides to answer questions about secret emails

John Kerry vows not to let Aleppo fall to Syrian President Bashar Assad

Observations along the road to ruin

Haircuts and Hillary

More news to rattle the Republican elites

David Brooks should stay in his little bourgeois strata

The return of pseudo-science

Talk about raising the stakes: Hillary Clinton says the “whole world” is pulling for her to defeat Donald Trump in November’s election.

In a fundraising email Wednesday morning, after Mr. Trump ousted his final major opponent the night before, Mrs. Clinton’s team said it was “unimaginable” that the maverick businessman would capture the GOP nomination.

“I don’t know how else to say it: The whole world is counting on us to win this thing. And we owe it to them to step up,” wrote Clinton staffer Christine Reynolds.

Mrs. Clinton, who has advocated for cutting the influence of money in politics, is nonetheless hoping her own prolific fundraising can be an advantage as she faces Mr. Trump, who so far has done little to actively solicit others’ money.

But Mr. Trump signaled Wednesday morning that he may be preparing to change tactics, saying he wasn’t sure whether he will keep self-funding his campaign.

Copyright © 2016 The Washington Times, LLC.  Click here for reprint permission.

Stephen Dinan can be reached at sdinan@washingtontimes.com.

Terms of Use / Privacy Policy

