

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Megyn Kelly and Donald Trump finally put their tumultuous year behind them and sat down to talk about it, but the presumptive Republican nominee isn’t ruling out the possibility things could get nasty again.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

This file photo combination made from Aug. 6, 2015, photos shows Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, left, and Fox News Channel host and moderator Megyn Kelly during the first Republican presidential debate at the Quicken Loans Arena, in Cleveland. (Photo: John Minchillo, AP)

Megyn Kelly and Donald Trump finally put their tumultuous year behind them and sat down to talk about it, but the presumptive Republican nominee isn’t ruling out the possibility things could get nasty again.

“This could happen again to us,” Trump said in a pre-released clip of from an interview with Kelly that will air during a special called MEGYN KELLY Presents on Fox Broadcasting May 17 at 8 pm. Additional clips will air on Kelly's Fox News show beginning May 18.

Join me for my primetime special, “Megyn Kelly Presents,” May 17 on FOX. Here’s a preview of my sit-down with Trump.https://t.co/IvKr4izIwE

“You seem to stay angry for months,” Kelly said.

“Yeah,” Trump responded.

“Was that real or was that strategy?” Kelly asked.

“Well I’m a real person I don’t see ‘Oh gee I’m angry tonight but tomorrow you’re my best friend,’” Trump said. The presumptive GOP nominee said that while things could deteriorate again, he had respect for Kelly for calling a meeting.

“I have great respect for you that you were able to call me and say let’s get together and let’s talk," Trump said. “To me, I would not have done that. I don’t see that as a positive — I think that’s a negative for me.”

He pointed out that their original meeting had been in Trump Tower, which wasn’t a neutral site, adding that he wouldn’t have gone had it been at Fox.

“I think the doormen are still recovering,” Kelly joked.

“I think the whole building is still recovering,” Trump responded.

Kelly drew Trump’s ire in the first Republican debate after she asked New York billionaire about comments he had made about women. Trump unleashed a withering response in the days and weeks that followed— in interviews, at rallies and via social media — saying Kelly was a bad journalist and even made comments that implied she was menstruating during the exchange, though he denied that was what he meant.

