Sign in to comment!

Sign in to comment!


 


Contests in West Virginia and Nebraska on Tuesday mark the first primaries that were expected to be all about Donald Trump -- but Texas Sen. Ted Cruz is keeping speculation alive that despite ending his campaign after last week's blowout, he might not yet be done.

Though he and Ohio Gov. John Kasich suspended their campaigns after the big Indiana primary loss, Cruz on Tuesday said that if he sees a path to victory emerge, “We will certainly respond accordingly.”

Cruz is quietly writing to state party chairmen to hold onto the delegates he won in primaries and caucuses. And he’s even submitted a delegate slate to the secretary of state in California, which votes June 7, Fox News has learned.

Asked why the “suspended” campaign would take such action, Cruz California state director Jason Scalese told Fox News: “It was really just to keep faith with our supporters."

But the moves could bring added attention to the results of the West Virginia and Nebraska contests.

Cruz said later Tuesday on Capitol Hill that he has no expectation of winning Nebraska and reiterated that he’s suspended his campaign. But he added: “If circumstances change, we will always assess changed circumstances.”

The latest headlines on the 2016 elections from the biggest name in politics. See Latest Coverage →

On the Democratic side, only West Virginia has delegates at stake Tuesday, though Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is hoping for a victory to keep alive his bid against primary front-runner Hillary Clinton. He has held the lead in most polls going into the primary contest but still faces a nearly insurmountable delegate deficit in his underdog quest for the nomination.

Clinton’s remarks in March about “putting a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business” hurt her chances of winning the coal-mining state. The former secretary of state apologized in person for the comment, which she said was taken out of context, but skipped campaigning in West Virginia.

Clinton had 2,228 delegates before Tuesday, compared with 1,454 for Sanders -- with 29 of them at stake in West Virginia and just other nine contests remaining. It takes 2,383 delegates to win the Democratic nomination.

Nebraska will technically hold a Democratic primary for voters. But the delegates were awarded in the party’s March caucus. Sanders won and was awarded 15 pledged delegates. Clinton won 10 delegates and the support of three superdelegates. 

Trump campaigned in West Virginia, donning a hard hat and pretending to shovel coal at a rally last week while vowing to help the struggling fossil fuel industry and its legions of out-of-work miners.

“I'm going to put miners back to work,” the billionaire businessman told the crowd. Clinton “said I'm going to put mines out of business. That's a tough one to explain.”

The GOP presumptive presidential nominee also told the crowd to "save your vote for the general election. The primary's gone.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.



Advertisement

Advertisement









©2016 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ

