Taxpayers also fund studies of drunk birds songs, femininity of Democrats in Congress

Feds pay researcher to have bee sting his penis

Harvard professor: Start treating Christian conservatives like Nazis

Captain America's 'heterosexual virility' lamented by Vanity Fair

Obama White House showed 'bad faith' in global-warming case, judge rules

ED FEULNER: Leftists liberal in name only

Wyoming rancher facing $20M in EPA fines claims victory, keeps cash, stock pond

Donald Trump winning over Democrats in blue Northeast states

Hillary Clinton nets big bucks from Justice Dept. employees during server investigation

White House proud of West Point cadets in black pride photo

U.S. warships, Chinese fighters in tense showdown on South China Sea

When disaster stalks the weary land

Looking for loot in other people’s pockets

Americans still believe in intelligence community

A shadow Cabinet for Donald Trump

Liberal in name only

Taxpayers paid for one scientist to have a bee sting his penis, and paid other researchers to figure out that cheerleaders look more attractive in a group than individually, according to a painful new survey of wasteful spending being released Tuesday by Sen. Jeff Flake.

At a time of tight budgets and demands for new spending, including money to fight Zika, to repair water pipes in Flint, Michigan, and to combat the growing opioid epidemic, Mr. Flake said the existence of ridiculous research projects funded by taxpayers shows there’s plenty of room to cut to pay for those needs.

Perhaps the most outrageous item Mr. Flake identified was a study that concluded Democratic women in Congress were less feminine than Republican women. That bit of research, which even went so far as to identify the lawmakers thought to score low on the femininity test, was part of a $50,000 National Science Foundation grant to the University of California-Los Angeles.

PHOTOS: Magazines can't agree on the sexiest woman alive; you be the judge

Meanwhile, some $1 million in NSF money was spent on the grant that involved studying where it hurts most to be stung by a bee. The penis turned out to be only third-worst out of 25 options, falling behind nose and upper lip.

Of course, the researcher helpfully noted, it was just a single-subject study so it’s not clear how generalizable his results were.

“It’s time that Washington set clear goals for federally-funded research, improved transparency to ensure tax dollars are being prioritized to meet to those goals and reduced wasteful and duplicative spending on lesser priorities,” Mr. Flake said as he released his report, “Twenty Questions: Profiles in Federally Funded Science.”

PHOTOS: The 15 best cheerleading squads in the NFL

He announced legislation to require the White House to develop a system to weed out duplicative research and to require agencies that fund research to post a summary, funding details and information about papers written for every unclassified study paid for by taxpayers’ money.

Researchers in one project Mr. Flake highlighted fed alcohol-laced grape juice to finches to see if the birds slurred their songs when inebriated. They did, slightly, and the birds’ songs were “a bit less organized,” the researchers at the Oregon Health & Science University reported.

That money came from the National Institutes of Health — an agency that’s currently begging for more money to combat the Zika virus.

Weird and wasteful studies have long been a target for ridicule in Washington, but the ones Mr. Flake found may set records for questionable value to taxpayers, whose wallets are already pulled in many directions.

The Defense Department, which congressional Republicans insisted needs an injection of tens of billions of dollars this year, spent money to study why coffee spills when someone walks.

“In our busy lives, almost all of us have to walk with a cup of coffee. While often we spill the drink, this familiar phenomenon has never been explored systematically,” the researchers said in explaining their project to the magazine Science. The researchers concluded, as any parent already tells a child, that walking slower and steadier reduces the chances of spilling.

Some of the projects singled out by Mr. Flake, Arizona Republican, have already been highlighted in the Ig Nobel prizes, given by scientists to the more curious projects under the rubric of research.

Michael L. Smith’s bee sting study was a winner in 2015, drawing cringes from Ig Nobel judges who were astounded that he subjected himself to hundreds of stings across 25 different body parts, trying to gauge which hurt the most.

He said scientists had previously tried to rank animals’ and insects’ stings compared to one another, but nobody had calculated where on the body it was worse to get stung. While admitting that “pain is notoriously difficult to quantify,” Mr. Smith tried anyway — forcing honey bees to sting him from the top of his skull to the tip of his middle toe, both of which tied for least painful places.

Story Continues →

Copyright © 2016 The Washington Times, LLC.  Click here for reprint permission.

Stephen Dinan can be reached at sdinan@washingtontimes.com.

Terms of Use / Privacy Policy

