

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Ted Cruz raised all sorts of speculation Tuesday when he said that, if a path forward in the GOP race became available, he would “certainly respond accordingly.”

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

A worker for Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, removes the campaign sign from the podium following primary night campaign event in Indianapolis, Indiana May 3, 2016. (Photo: Michael Conroy, AP)

Ted Cruz raised all sorts of speculation Tuesday when he said that, if a path forward in the GOP race became available, he would “certainly respond accordingly.”

Cruz was asked on Glenn Beck's radio show whether he'd be willing to re-enter the GOP race if he was able to pull off a win in Tuesday's Nebraska primary. Beck is a vocal backer of the Texas senator and appeared as a surrogate during his campaign.

“I am not holding my breath ... We launched this campaign intending to win. The reason we suspended the race last week, it was Indiana’s loss, I didn’t see a viable path to victory. If that changes we will certainly respond accordingly,” Cruz responded.

It is true that Cruz didn’t officially end his campaign last week after Trump beat him in Indiana by double digits. He (along with most presidential candidates) officially suspend their bids, usually for fundraising purposes.

“With a heavy heart, but with boundless optimism for the long-term future of our nation, we are suspending our campaign,” Cruz said last Tuesday.

Nebraska will hold its Republican primary Tuesday night, along with West Virginia. Trump is currently the only one remaining in the GOP race and has been deemed the Republican Party’s presumptive nominee.

