 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

This post has been updated.

The chairman of a powerful House committee is demanding to know how IRS chief John Koskinen has found the money to hire up to 700 enforcement staffers when he told Congress a short time ago his agency was more or less broke.

Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform panel, reminded the Internal Revenue Service commissioner in a letter that he told lawmakers in February that he “urgently needed” a billion-dollar budget increase next year to boost the agency’s enforcement staff.

  [This means you’re more likely to get audited]  

“Now, less than three months later, without that increase, you have announced plans to increase enforcement activities,” Chaffetz wrote. “The inescapable conclusion is that your testimony to Congress was inaccurate, reflecting either an attempt to exaggerate IRS’s budget needs or a management failure in understanding the needs of your organization.”

The Utah Republican’s May 6 letter, first reported by Fox News, is the latest attack by House Republicans on Koskinen’s management of the IRS since Congress launched a lengthy probe of the agency’s treatment of conservative groups.

  [Inside the GOP backup plan to impeach the IRS commissioner]  

Chaffetz has been on a campaign since last October to impeach the tax collector, and Congress has cut the IRS budget by billions of dollars in the past five years.

Chaffetz demanded that the IRS produce a full accounting of where Koskinen found the money that will pay for up to 700 new hires this year, the hiring plans themselves and the paper trail showing how officials determined in February that they had to continue an exception-only hiring freeze that took effect in 2011.

“The ongoing decline in enforcement activities we’ve seen in the last several years has translated into billions of dollars of lost revenue for the government,” Koskinen told the Senate Finance Committee in February, according to Chaffetz’s letter.

Koskinen told IRS employees in a memo last week that the hiring spree would allow the agency to beef up an audit staff depleted by years of attrition and go after delinquent taxpayers.

He said the money for enforcement hires will be freed up by retirements, attrition and budget “efficiencies.” But he was not specific.

Koskinen told Chaffetz in a response obtained by The Washington Post that he will provide him with the justification for the hires. But he said the congressman seems to have a “misunderstanding about this initiative.”

“As I stated in my message to our employees, a copy of which I am enclosing for your convenience, the funding for this initiative results from the increased attrition in our enforcement forces this year, along with efficiencies we have found since September,” the IRS chief wrote.

But he said the extra enforcement staff still will leave the IRS with “at least 2,000 fewer employees” at the end of the year and about 5,000 fewer enforcement staffers than the agency had five years ago.

A spokeswoman for Democrats on the Oversight Committee described the Chaffetz letter as political posturing: “A simple phone call would have answered this question.”

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

