

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

It looks like it could be a very tight general election

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    Nearly one in four likely voters would either stay home or vote for some other candidate.Video provided by Newsy
    Newslook

It's still early to analyze the general election, but a new poll shows Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in a dead heat in three key swing states: Florida, Ohio, and Pennsylvania.

The Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll released Tuesday has Clinton up by a single point in both Florida (43%-42%) and Pennsylvania (43%-42%), while Trump leads Clinton in Ohio by 43%-to-39%

"Six months from Election Day, the presidential races between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in the three most crucial states, Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, are too close to call," said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac Poll.

Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders, by the way, has narrow leads over Trump in all three pivotal states.

Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump (Photo: DSK, AFP/Getty Images)

Brown joked that a Clinton-Trump general election "may be good for divorce lawyers," citing a massive gender gap among voters that currently seems to be benefiting Trump.

"In Pennsylvania, Clinton's 19-point lead among women matches Trump's 21-point margin among men," Brown said. "In Ohio, she is up 7 points among women but down 15 points with men. In Florida she is up 13 points among women but down 13 points among men."

The Quinnipiac Swing State Poll says it "focuses on Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania because since 1960 no candidate has won the presidential race without taking at least two of these three states."

