

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

House Speaker Paul Ryan said he doesn't have "huge expectations" about his meeting Thursday with Donald Trump, other than to start the process of unifying the party after a "very bitter presidential primary."

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

House Speaker Paul Ryan speaks at Georgetown University in Washington in April. (Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)

House Speaker Paul Ryan said he doesn't have "huge expectations" about his meeting Thursday with Donald Trump, other than to start the process of unifying the party after a "very bitter presidential primary."

"People are still sort of getting over that," said Ryan, who announced last week he was not yet ready to endorse Trump, now the presumptive GOP nominee.

"I don't go into Thursday with huge expectations other than just to have the kind of conversation that we need to start having so that we are getting ourselves on the same page as a party," Ryan said in an interview Tuesday morning with Janesville, Wis., radio host Stan Milam of WBEL-AM radio. "I assume that's what Donald wants as well. Again we don't know each other, we talked once a few months go on the phone, a very good conversation."

Ryan said the goal was to "just put the building blocks of party unity together."

Ryan said that, "it takes some work."

Trump and Ryan are scheduled to meet Thursday in Washington. Trump also plans to meet with GOP members of Congress.

USA TODAY

Ryan says he would step down as convention chair if Trump asks

Ryan told the Journal Sentinel Monday he would step down from his role as convention chair if asked to do so by Trump. Ryan also said he is eager to get to know Trump. The House speaker said last week that the bulk of the burden is on Trump to unify the party, but that he wants to help in that process, and is open to supporting him.

"I never said never," Ryan told the Journal Sentinel Monday. "I just said (not) at this point. I wish I had more time to get to know him before this happened. We just didn't."

