

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

WASHINGTON—Former House Speaker John Boehner is still sitting on approximately $2.5 million in campaign funds.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

WASHINGTON — Six months after relinquishing his House seat, former Speaker John Boehner is still sitting on approximately $2.5 million in campaign funds — a stash the former Ohio congressman is using to keep a small political operation humming.

Outgoing House Speaker John Boehner acknowledges applause after his farewell speech on the floor in October. (Photo: AP file)

A fundraising powerhouse when he was in Congress, Boehner can’t accept contributions anymore. But he has continued to spend some of the leftover cash he raised while he was in office.

His biggest benefactor so far has been the House GOP’s campaign arm; he’s given more than $1.2 million to the National Republican Congressional Committee since leaving office.

But Boehner has also dished out nearly $200,000 on political expenses — from catering to legal consulting to meeting expenses — since resigning his House seat Oct. 30th.

Dave Schnittger, a spokesman for Boehner, said some of that tab was for expenses incurred before the former speaker left office. For example, Boehner commissioned a poll of voters in Ohio’s 8th Congressional District last fall.

At the time, Boehner had decided to retire, but he had not announced those plans and had not determined precisely when he would step down. Boehner paid his old polling firm $21,000 two months ago for that work.

Other funds, Schnittger said, have been used to keep Boehner on the fundraising circuit — traveling the country to help raise money for House Republicans.

“I think he was pretty clear when he left that he would keep his political operation running and that he would continue with his efforts to support his former colleagues and maintain a Republican majority in the House,” Schnittger said. “That’s still something pretty close to his heart.”

So far, Boehner has hosted fundraisers for three House Republicans, from North Carolina, Florida, and New York.

“He has a lot more of that planned in the months ahead,” Schnittger said.  “There’s a lot of work to set those events up — who is going to be there (and) how you get the speaker there.”

He said that explains some of the campaign’s “meeting expenses” at various Washington restaurants, including the Capitol Hill Club, a private GOP social club, and Trattoria Alberto, one of Boehner’s favorite D.C. dinner spots.

It is not unusual for ex-lawmakers to keep their campaign accounts up and running. A 2015 analysis by USA TODAY found at least 141 former members of Congress still had campaign accounts, including many who had been out of office for more than five years.

USA TODAY

Former lawmakers sit on tens of millions in campaign cash

There are few limits on how leftover campaign funds can be used. Ex-lawmakers cannot spend the money on themselves, but they can give the money to other candidates or to party committees. They can also donate the funds to charity.

“There is very little oversight” of how ex-lawmakers use leftover campaign funds, said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit that tracks campaign money. “It’s kind of a kitty that can live on long after the politician is forgotten.”

Boehner’s most recent campaign filings show he had more than $1.6 million in his House re-election account at the end of March. He had another $992,000 in his leadership PAC account, campaign finance disclosures show. He has closed a third fundraising account, called “Boehner for Speaker.”

Schnittger noted Boehner has just one political staffer on his payroll now and said the ex-speaker’s expenditures are “all pretty routine stuff for a political operation.”

“When he was speaker,” Schnittger added, “those numbers would have been astronomically high.”

