Advertisement

For months, Donald J. Trump denounced the Republican Party as a “rigged” system of party insiders trying to control the levers of power.

But with the nomination fight behind him, Mr. Trump’s campaign has moved to take advantage of the party’s full array of assets, whether communications aides, a trove of data, a field operations staff or the ability to fund-raise jointly. 

That last piece is particularly important, as Mr. Trump turns to the task of raising hundreds of millions of dollars for the general election, probably against a well-funded Hillary Clinton and the outside groups supporting her. 

In a three-and-a-half-hour meeting on Monday, Mr. Trump’s advisers Paul J. Manafort, Rick Wiley, Corey Lewandowski and Michael Glassner met with the Republican National Committee finance chairman Lewis M. Eisenberg and the committee chairman, Reince Priebus. 

Mr. Priebus has made clear that there is “no mechanism” for Mr. Trump to insert his own handpicked chairman over the current structure. While that is technically true, Mr. Trump could certainly place a trusted ally on the committee to enforce his agenda. 

But even that is difficult for Mr. Trump, whose lean campaign is light on spare staff members, and who has to avail himself of the existing team at the party committee to be even remotely functional in a general-election fight. 

So while Mr. Trump has railed against the party as being unfair to him at various points, it is the Republican brand that got him a nomination. And he is forced to stick with it. 

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.


		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		


Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
        


			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			

