
Media


By David K. Li








									May 10, 2016 | 10:25am
												

A top Facebook honcho is insisting that the social media giant doesn’t blacklist conservative-friendly topics from its trending news section.

Tom Stocky, the MIT-educated vice president of Facebook who oversees the “Trending Topics” section, said there’s “no evidence” of an anti-conservative whitewash.

“We take these reports extremely seriously, and have found no evidence that the anonymous allegations are true,” Stocky posted late Monday on his Facebook page. 

Anonymous former Facebook employees told the tech blog Gizmodo that topics that would be of interest to conservatives were regularly suppressed.

Those topics included Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, the Drudge Report and murdered Navy SEAL Chris Kyle.

“Facebook is a platform for people and perspectives from across the political spectrum. There are rigorous guidelines in place for the review team to ensure consistency and neutrality. These guidelines do not permit the suppression of political perspectives,” according to Stocky.



“Nor do they permit the prioritization of one viewpoint over another or one news outlet over another. These guidelines do not prohibit any news outlet from appearing in Trending Topics.”

Stocky specifically addressed allegations that Facebook has over-hyped the Black Lives Matter movement.

“We looked into that charge and found that it is untrue,” according to Stocky. “We do not insert stories artificially into trending topics, and do not instruct our reviewers to do so. Our guidelines do permit reviewers to take steps to make topics more coherent, such as combining related topics into a single event (such as ‪#‎starwars‬ and‪#‎maythefourthbewithyou‬), to deliver a more integrated experience.”


Read Next




				Julian Assange gets a kitten to keep him company			



Read Next




				Julian Assange gets a kitten to keep him company			


Share Selection

82,556

28,324

24,245

© Copyright 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved

Post Digital Network


			© 2016 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
							 |
TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY | YOUR AD CHOICES



							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						

Copy Link

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password.

