 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Does Facebook bury conservative news on its site? One Republican senator hopes to find out.

Sen. John Thune (S.D.) wrote to Facebook chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg after a former news curator claimed the site regularly suppressed content pertaining to the political right, a charge the company has denied. The former Facebook employee alleged that stories about Mitt Romney, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and the conservative CPAC gathering were barred from appearing on Facebook’s influential “Trending” news section.

“If true, these allegations compromise Facebook’s ‘open culture’ and mission ‘to make the world more open and connected,'” Thune, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, wrote in a letter Tuesday.

“With over a billion daily active users on average, Facebook has enormous influence on users’ perceptions of current events, including political perspectives.”

The letter asked Zuckerberg to answer five questions about the “Trending” feature, including whether Facebook keeps a record of curators’ decisions to include or exclude stories and how many pieces related to conservatives have been rejected.

Additionally, Thune asked for a briefing for committee staff on the “Trending” feature.

The former curator’s claims, reported Monday by Gizmodo, have caused an uproar on the political right. “It is beyond disturbing to learn that this power is being used to silence view points and stories that don’t fit someone else’s agenda,” the Republican National Committee wrote Monday in a blog post.

Facebook Vice President for Search Tom Stocky said the claims are false.

“Facebook is a platform for people and perspectives from across the political spectrum,” Stocky wrote Monday in a Facebook post.

“There are rigorous guidelines in place for the review team to ensure consistency and neutrality. These guidelines do not permit the suppression of political perspectives. Nor do they permit the prioritization of one viewpoint over another or one news outlet over another … We do not insert stories artificially into trending topics, and do not instruct our reviewers to do so.”

A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) slammed Thune for launching the probe.

“The Republican Senate refuses to hold hearings on Judge Garland, refuses to fund the President’s request for Zika aid and takes the most days off of any Senate since 1956, but thinks Facebook hearings are a matter of urgent national interest,” Adam Jentleson wrote in an email.

“The taxpayers who pay Republican senators’ salaries probably want their money back.”

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

