 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton may have found a purpose to the string of primaries against Bernie Sanders this month that she is expected to lose: to connect with working-class white voters who may be crucial in a general-election match-up against Donald Trump.

Polls have consistently shown Clinton trailing Sanders not only in Tuesday’s primary in West Virginia, but also in Kentucky and Oregon a week later — and Washington the week after that.

Those losses are not expected to cut significantly into Clinton’s lead in the Democratic nominating process. And while her recent flurry of appearances in these states may be designed to improve her performance against Sanders, they are also allowing her to test messages that may help her make gains with a core Trump constituency: white voters.

In the runup to West Virginia’s primary, Clinton has toured the state, holding small, intimate meetings with voters — including some detractors who challenged her on comments she made at a televised town-hall event that she would put coal miners and companies “out of business.”

On Tuesday, while campaigning in Kentucky ahead of that state’s primary next week, Clinton proposed tax changes that would assist families with the cost of child care — a contrast with Trump’s lack of a specific policy agenda.

Among other details, Clinton said she would limit child-care costs to no more than 10 percent of a family’s income. 

“It just doesn’t make sense,” Clinton said at a stop in Lexington, Ky., of the cost of high-quality care for young children and the struggles of working parents to pay for it. “It’s the most important job that any of us can do, and we’re making it really hard and really expensive.”

 [Clinton: No family should pay more than 10 percent of income on child care] 

Bill Clinton was also expected to tour Kentucky on Thursday.

The Clinton camp also sought to hold Trump to a tax platform that they called “risky, reckless and regressive,” anticipating that Trump may attempt to adjust later and walk back some of those policies, including tax cuts for the wealthy.

“Donald Trump has put forward a tax plan that paces him squarely on the side of the super wealthy and corporations at the expense of the middle class and working families,” said Jake Sullivan, a senior Clinton policy adviser, in a call with reporters Monday.

 [Va.’s rapidly changing Loudoun County is testing ground for Clinton] 

Although Trump became the presumptive nominee after Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and Ohio Gov. John Kasich (R) dropped out last week, the GOP is also holding a primary Tuesday in West Virginia and also in Nebraska. Trump has been predicted in all polls as the winner of both contests.

Trump has maintained a lighter schedule than usual since effectively securing the nomination. He visited West Virginia last week — only to ask Republican primary voters not to bother voting for him Tuesday. 

“Save your vote for the general election, okay? Forget this one. The primary is gone,” Trump told a massive crowd in Charleston last week. He later made a swing through Oregon and Washington — continuing to target upcoming primary states while also, like Clinton, reaching out to white voters who are expected to play a big role in November.

 [Trump’s crude sex talk collides with White House bid.] 

Trump has also stepped up his attacks on Clinton. He has given her the nickname “Crooked Hillary” and has sharpened his attacks on her judgment, for instance on foreign policy, international trade deals and her vote for the Iraq War. He has also characterized her as an “enabler” of her husband’s indiscretions.

Once a Clinton stronghold, West Virginia’s political preference has shifted dramatically since she won by a landslide in the 2008 presidential primary. But win or lose, she is likely to maintain a significant lead over Sanders in both the votes and delegates necessary to clinch the Democratic nomination.

Sanders has vowed to fight on nonetheless. His campaign is eyeing California, where a huge delegate prize potentially awaits the winner. 

The senator from Vermont campaigned in Sacramento to a crowd of thousands on Monday ahead of the state’s June 7 primary. Later in the week, he will campaign in South Dakota, which also votes in June.

“The political establishment is getting nervous,” Sanders said Monday. “They should be getting very nervous because real change is coming.”

Sanders made a pair of trips to West Virginia during the two weeks leading up the primary, where he emphasized jobs lost to trade deals and the persistent poverty in the state.

During his most recent trip, Sanders devoted a speech last week to the latter subject, staged at a food bank in McDowell County, where nearly half the children live in poverty. Sanders also touted a $41 billion plan to transition ailing coal workers into new industries.

In the lead-up to the West Virginia primary, Sanders also aired television ads in the state, something Clinton did not do.

Heading into Tuesday’s contest, Clinton held a formidable lead of 290 pledged delegates over Sanders, according to the latest tally by the Associated Press. Once superdelegates are factored in, Clinton’s lead stands at 774 delegates.

The more delegates Sanders accumulates between now and the Democratic convention in July, the more leverage aides say he will have in shaping the party’s platform. If he is not the nominee, Sanders has said, he would like to push Clinton to adopt his position on issues including universal health care and raising the minimum wage.

Sanders has continued to insist that he has a narrow path to the nomination that involves catching — or at least coming close to — Clinton in pledged delegates, which are allocated based on performances in primaries and caucuses. Sanders needs to win nearly two-thirds of the remaining pledged delegates to do that.

 Jose A. DelReal contributed to this report. 

Jose A. DelReal contributed to this report.



politics















Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

