Once every few years, an item of clothing or grooming style long written off by the world makes an inexplicable and almighty comeback. From pocket squares to cargo trousers, the great unwashed happily adopt fads and fashions that, only months before, they presumed had been confined forever to the big lookbook in the sky.

While this means that a resurgence in mullets or shellsuits lurks forever on the horizon, I ask you to push those shuddersome thoughts to the back of your mind. Because we have bigger news: male chest hair is back on trend.

Yes, we've been here before. The furry front was a  symbol of unbridled virility during much of the 20th century, worn with pride by Hollywood leading men like Sean Connery, Burt Reynolds and Tom Selleck. That all changed in the 1990s, however, when Mark 'Marky' Wahlberg's smooth chested Calvin Klein advert set the world swooning – and its men waxing. Pileous pecs were out; trimmed torsos were in.

However, in the age of the lumbersexual, chest hair appears to be having a renaissance.

“It’s true,” says Ralph Marzo, owner of Gentleman’s Grooming in Stratford. “Over the last 12 months, we have increasingly noticed that more men are opting for a less-smooth look on their chests.”

Marzo, who believes that the beard brigade  are simply looking for something “to complement their facial hair,” is not the only industry expert to make this observation.

 “The metrosexual has left the room!” says Jack Dunn, a male grooming expert with his own salon in Islington. “Guys now coming in for their first waxing treatments tell us that they are under strict instructions from their partners that they can get anything waxed but their chests. As a result, we’re seeing a huge increase of men with hairy chests.”

 “A few years ago it was common to see clients with shaved or waxed chests, but it seems that men no longer think that removing hairs from their chest is a masculine thing to do. Who knows why? Perhaps it’s because partners prefer the more manly, rugged look?”

Darren Langdridge, a Professor of Psychology and Sexuality for the Open University, believes that there is no one reason behind this cultural shift and that, as with the return of any craze or custom, there are any number of explanations.

 “Firstly,” begins the professor, “hair has returned more generally – and importantly, quite publicly – for men, in the form of stubble and the beard.

 “Being clean shaven used to be an indicator of respectability, but that has now disappeared and instead we can see beards being widely celebrated with salons – that are often retro-styled themselves – which focus on the hipster practice of revisiting past styles with a contemporary twist.

 “Secondly, it is important to acknowledge the extent to which straight cultures are often influenced by gay culture," Langdridge continues. "This influence became particularly evident when we witnessed the emergence of the ‘metrosexual’, and I suspect that some of the shift back towards chest hair is a result of heterosexual culture following or being influenced by current gay trends.”

The gay trend cited by Langdridge is known as ‘bear culture’, a move away from the smooth and effeminate look typified by the homosexual man and towards a more traditionally masculine style – part of which involves a celebration of male body hair.

 “This subculture has been around for a long time, of course,” adds Landridge, “but it is definitely in its ascendancy, and may well be influencing heterosexual culture more than we may think.”

Influences on the hairy chest, like all other male fashions, can be best traced through the representation of men on film and television. And, tellingly, the epitome of the British male, James Bond, was furry-chested until Daniel Craig swanned out of the sea and into the franchise with a chest smoother than his talking.

Jo Hemmings, a psychologist for The Harley Medical Group, agrees that the media can be used to chart the progression of trends and employed as a tool to predict future fads, but she also believes that Selleck, Craig and other screen icons are setting the styles themselves.

 “Much of the return of the hairy chest is down to images shared and discussed on social media,” explains Hemmings. “When an – albeit trimmed – but by no means smooth-chested Aidan Turner cropped up in Poldark last year, a whole lot of women swooned and Twitter went all of a flutter. And other men, seeing the positive response, have simply copied that look.

 “Men have far fewer ways to express their personality, style and individuality than women,” Hemmings continues. “Guyliner and manscara never really took off, so body, head or facial hair – whether on or off – is one of the only socially acceptable ways left for a man to make a statement.

 “Beards are currently hip – manliness is in vogue and clean-shaven pretty boys have fallen out out of fashion for now.

"Whether it’s a young boy-band member or an older sportsman or actor, iconic celebrities everywhere are increasingly dodging the wax and the razor, and this is influencing other men to, hair-wise, man up.”

© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

