 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Some 2.7 billion years ago, lava started oozing out of a crack in the planet in what is now Australia. It spread and spread, flowing out in every direction until it hit seawater. Then, swiftly, it hardened into rock.

As the lava surged upward, gases that had dissolved under the high pressures of Earth's interior expanded and formed bubbles — much the way a bottle of soda fizzes when you unscrew the cap. Those bubbles were frozen in time when the lava that contained them solidified.

Fast-forward millions upon million of years, and those bubbles are some of the best clues scientists have about what early Earth was like. It's pretty different from how we had imagined it.

That's according to a study published this week in the journal Nature Geoscience, which found that the atmosphere 2.7 billion years ago was half as thick as it is today. The find comes as a surprise to scientists, who had always assumed the opposite was true. The sun was 20 percent weaker in the early days of Earth, so researchers thought that a thick atmosphere worked like a down comforter to trap sunlight and keep the planet warm enough to sustain life.

Now it looks as though the atmosphere was less of a thick blanket than a thin sheet. But somehow life was able to hang on amid conditions that seem wildly inhospitable. If that's true on Earth, could it be true on other planets, as well?

Sanjoy Som, an astrobiologist at NASA and the lead author of the study, has asked that same question.

  [Ancient volcanic rocks suggest that Earth's water arrived surprisingly early]  

For Som, the new study confirms something he was already starting to believe. Four years ago, he analyzed fossilized raindrop imprints and found that there was no way the atmosphere could have been as thick as it would need to be for a greenhouse effect to keep the planet warm. But he and his team members didn't realize exactly how thin the primordial atmosphere was until they started looking at the pristine preserved lava floes of the Australian outback. By measuring the size of air bubbles trapped in the top of the rock (which were constrained by air pressure) and comparing them to the smaller bubbles lower down (which were under pressure from the air and the rock), the researchers were able to gauge what the atmosphere would have been like.

“It’s really bold, really ambitious and fraught with difficulties,” Dork Sahagian, a geologist at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania who came up with the lava bubbling technique, told Science. “But you’ve got to try it. It’s as good a proxy of the pressure as you can hope to find.”

Not only did the lava bubbles show that Earth's atmosphere wasn't thick — it was incredibly thin. Som and his colleagues estimate atmospheric pressure during the late Archean at 0.5 bar; 1.013 bar is Earth's current atmospheric pressure at sea level.

The culprit was probably tiny organisms that sucked nitrogen — the element that makes up about 80 percent of the atmosphere — from the air. That process, called nitrogen fixing, still happens today, but the gas that is removed is replaced by other biological processes. The organisms that release nitrogen back into the air rely on oxygen, a gas that wouldn't become available in the atmosphere until the Great Oxidation Event a few hundred million years later.

“The levels of nitrogen gas have varied through Earth’s history, at least in Earth’s early history, in ways that people just haven’t even thought of before,” said co-author David Catling, a professor of Earth and space sciences at the University of Washington, said in a news release. “People will need to rewrite the textbooks.”

But it's still too early to start throwing away the old ones. Fossilized evidence of liquid water on the surface proves that the planet wasn't frozen solid by the early sun's meager rays, and past research has suggested that even incredibly high levels of greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide would not have been sufficient to keep the planet warm. A 2009 study showed that the greenhouse effect might have been boosted by increased nitrogen pressure — but that's the opposite of what Som's lava bubbles suggest.

This leaves scientists in a bit of a bind, Colin Goldblatt, the University of Victoria atmospheric chemist who authored that study, told Science.

“With such little pressure, it’s going to be very hard to account for the warm temperatures,” Goldblatt said. He would like to see studies of rocks from other time periods supporting Som's find.

Whatever was going on, it's clear that early Earth would have been unrecognizable to living things today, Som pointed out to Reuters. The moon was closer so tides were stronger. The planet rotated more quickly on its axis so the days were shorter.

All this demonstrates that "a planetary environment completely different than modern Earth can sustain life on its surface," Som, who worked on the study while at the University of Washingto​n and is now based at NASA's Ames Research Center in California, told Reuters. And if organisms can live on a plant like that, perhaps they can live on planets that humans haven't discovered yet.

"Life doesn't need conditions like modern Earth to survive and thrive," Som added. "This is important in our quest for habitable environments in extra-solar planets."

Read more:

A key ingredient for life on Earth may have crash landed here from space

This gene helps prevent cancer. Did it also give rise to all complex life?

The building blocks of life weren't that hard to put together

These three Earth-like planets may be our best chance yet at detecting life

This strange, tailless comet could teach us about Earth's origins

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

national

health-science

speaking-of-science











Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

national

health-science

speaking-of-science





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

