 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

RYAN NOT IN PRIMARY DANGER. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wisc.) has drawn criticism in recent days from some fellow Republicans for refusing to support presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. Former Alaska governor Sarah Palin went so far as to tell CNN that she would back Ryan’s relatively unknown primary challenger, Paul Nehlen, in the upcoming Wisconsin congressional primary. That talk brought national attention to the race, but The Post’s Mike DeBonis reports that Ryan has very little to fear from his insurgent opponent.

…There’s significant evidence that Ryan is not about to be ousted from the right, despite the volatile anti-establishment environment and Nehlen’s support from one national tea party group.

A Marquette Law School poll done shortly before the April presidential primary found 81 percent of Republican and GOP-leaning independent voters in First Congressional District had a favorable impression of Ryan, compared to 12 percent unfavorable. Even about a third of Democrats viewed Ryan favorably.

“It certainly is not the profile of an elected official in danger of losing,” Charles Franklin, the Marquette Law School poll’s director, said Monday. “But the thing we’ve learned about primaries is that motivation of opponents and the circumstances of the race come into play.”

ENERGY AND WATER TRIPS ON THE HURDLE, AGAIN. So much for an easy appropriations process in the Senate. The energy, water and development appropriations bill stalled Monday after leaders made a third attempt to get gather enough votes to clear a necessary procedural hurdle. This is the first spending bill to come to the floor this year, and appropriators have vowed to forge ahead on other spending bills but the early failure does not bode well for more controversial bills to come. The Morning Consult has details of how the Senate will proceed:

Democrats already blocked two previous motions to file cloture on Alexander’s amendment and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said Democrats will continue to block the bill from moving forward if Cotton’s the amendment remains on the table.

Majority Leader Mitch McConnell sent a cloture motion to the desk for the Cotton amendment. He also entered a motion for another vote on the substitute amendment.

CHAFFETZ ASKS IRS WHERE THEY GOT THE MONEY FOR 700 NEW EMPLOYEES. The IRS recently announced plans to hire as many as 700 new employees to help crack down on tax evasion, but House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) wants to know how they’re going to pay for it. The Post’s Lisa Rein reports that Chaffetz wrote IRS commissioner John Koskinen to demand that the agency detail where they found the funds to pay the new employees.

The Utah Republican’s May 6 letter, first reported by FoxNews.com, is the latest attack by House Republicans on Koskinen’s management of the IRS since Congress launched a lengthy probe of the agency’s treatment of conservative groups.

Chaffetz has been on a campaign since last October to impeach the tax collector, and Congress has cut the IRS budget by billions of dollars in the last five years.

Chaffetz demanded that the IRS produce a full accounting of where he found the money that will pay for up to 700 new hires this year, the hiring plans themselves and the paper trail showing how officials determined in February that they had to continue an exception-only hiring freeze that took effect in 2011.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

