

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Looking forward to cracking open an “America” beer? You better toast Donald Trump when you do.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    Thanks to Anheuser-Busch, beer just got a little bit more patriotic. The company announced it is replacing the Budweiser logo with the word "America" on its 12-oz. cans and bottles this summer.
    USA TODAY

Looking forward to cracking open an “America” beer? You better toast Donald Trump when you do.

At least that’s what the presumptive Republican nominee thinks. On Wednesday, Trump took some credit for the new Budweiser name change — the company, despite being Belgian, will be changing its name to “America” through the election.

“Do you think you had something to do with Budweiser changing the name of their beer for the summer? From Budweiser to America?” Fox & Friends host Steve Doocy asked.

“I think so. They are so impressed with what our country will become that they decided to do this before the fact,” Trump said. It was not clear if he is being serious.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump greets supporters before speaking at a rally, Friday, May 6, 2016, in Omaha, Neb. (Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)

Trump has said that he's never taken a sip of alcohol, though he did have a brand of vodka.

Trump also previewed his meeting Thursday with House Speaker Paul Ryan, who has said he can’t yet support Trump.

“I think I’m doing very fine with Paul Ryan. I have a lot of respect for Paul Ryan. We’re going to have a meeting tomorrow, we’ll see what happens. If we make a deal, that will be great. And if we don’t, we will trudge forward like I’ve been doing and winning you know all the time," Trump said.

