David Cameron will refuse to debate against any of his Conservative rivals ahead of the European Union referendum but will appear on the same programme as Nigel Farage, The Telegraph understands.

The Prime Minister’s has set a “red line” over the prospect of a televised debate against a Tory Eurosceptic such as Boris Johnson.

Instead, he will on June 7 appear on an ITV debate against Mr Farage.

However, the two men will never be on screen together and will face separate 30-minute question sessions by Julie Etchingham, who is hosting the event.

The disclosure will come as a major blow to the BBC, which had been pushing for a TV debate featuring the Prime Minister against one of his Eurosceptic Cabinet colleagues, most likely Michael Gove, the Justice Secretary.

It will also infuriate the Vote Leave campaign, which Mr Farage is not a part of.

The disclosure means that Mr Cameron is now unlikely to take part in any head-to-head encounters with his political opponents ahead of the referendum.

Vote Leave, which is chaired by Mr Gove, has previously accused the Prime Minister of “running scared” of televised debates by refusing to take part in a contest against a Conservative Cabinet member.

The previous week on June 2, Mr Cameron will also take part in programme on Sky News, which will see him interviewed by Faisal Islam, the channel’s political editor, before taking part in an audience question and answer session moderated by Kay Burley.

Sources close to the Prime Minister said that he “feels very strongly” that the debate ahead of the EU referendum should not be focused on the “narrow issue” of conflict in the Tory Party.

Mr Johnson has made clear that he is prepared to debate the Prime Minister on live television.

Asked if he would take part in a head-to-head contest with the Prime Minister, Mr Johnson told the Spectator magazine: “Put it this way. I think I’d look a bit of a wimp if I said no… For me to recuse myself from the debates would be wet.”

A Number 10 source said: “This is not simply an argument in the Conservative Party. The Stronger In campaign is a broad coalition of many political parties. We want to demonstrate the breadth of the debate rather than focus on a narrow issue in the Tory Party.”

The hour-long programme featuring Mr Cameron and Mr Farage will have the same format as the “Question Time” debate the Prime Minister had with Ed Miliband ahead of the general election in 2015.

During the first 30 minutes, Mr Farage will appear alone on screen and will face questions from the audience.

There will then be an add break and Mr Cameron will then have the floor for 30 minutes. The two party leaders will not appear together on screen at any point, it is understood.

It is understood that on June 9, ITV will also hold another televised event with three pro-EU politicians taking on three supporters of the Leave campaign.

ITV is believed to have invited key figures from the Vote Leave campaign including Mr Johnson to take part in the event.

The BBC is planning a major event at Wembley Arena with an audience of thousands, two days before the vote on June 23.

The corporation had also planned a special edition of Question Time in which a leader from the Leave and Remain camps takes questions from the audience.

Downing Street sources said that they are still considering a proposal from the BBC.

However, the chance of Mr Cameron appearing on screen with any other opponents is “unlikely”, the sources said.

The Telegraph is planning to co-host a digital debate, with BuzzFeed and YouTube, in June.

Mr Cameron took part in three televised debates ahead of the general election.

He took part in one seven-way debate against all the other party leaders as well as two debates with Mr Miliband when they separately faced questions from an interviewer and members of the audience.

Etchingham was praised for the way she moderated the ITV general election debate.

In 2007, during coverage of a speech by the then leader of the opposition, Mr Cameron was about to explain what his immigration policy would be, when Etchingham, who thought her microphone was switched off, said: “Extermination.”

 

© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2016

