Getty Images

“You’ve shot so many of your films here in Europe and yet in the U.S. you haven’t even been convicted of rape,” said Laurent Lafitte

French comic Laurent Lafitte helped the 2016 Cannes Film Festival kick off to an awkward start — cracking a rape joke about Woody Allen, the director of the opening night gala screening “Cafe Society.”

“You’ve shot so many of your films here in Europe and yet in the U.S. you haven’t even been convicted of rape,” Lafitte told the black-tie crowd at the Grand Palais, his joke translated to English and projected on a massive screen.

The jab presumably references fellow director Roman Polanski, who has been living in exile following a 1977 L.A. County court indictment for the rape of a 13-year-old girl.

Also Read: How Amazon Studios Became the New Star of Cannes

Allen was joined at the kick-off by “Cafe Society” stars Kristen Stewart, Jesse Eisenberg and Blake Lively.

It’s been a rough promo tour for the 80-year-old director. In the process of hyping his throwback to Hollywood’s golden era, he raised eyebrows with rare comments about wife Soon-Yi Previn.

Remarking on the achievements of his wife — the adopted daughter of former Allen partner Mia Farrow — whom he married in 1997 amidst a firestorm of controversy, Allen drew contrasts between the higher education and world travel she’s enjoyed at his side with her impoverished upbringing in South Korea.

‘Woody Allen is the definition of white savior complex, he’s literal garbage,” one social media critic said of his comments.

Lucky for Allen, “Cafe Society” premiered out of competition and he’s done his heavy lifting in France. The film will hit U.S. theaters on July 15, courtesy of Lionsgate.

Get TheWrap’s complete Cannes 2016 coverage here.

Oscar winner and L'Oreal brand ambassador Julianne Moore leads a pack of glamorous arrivals at the opening night ceremony for the 2016 Cannes Film Festival

Actress Eva Longoria snags a selfie with model Doutzen Kroes

Naomi Watts and Susan Sarandon share a moment on the Croisette 

Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo reps the City of Light in the French Riviera 

Actress Gong Li dazzles in a dramatic gown and jewels

Victoria Beckham cuts her usual modern, dramatic figure on the red carept 

Donald Sutherland arrives in glasses, ready to screen "Cafe Society" 

Woody Allen stands flanked by the glamorous Blake Lively, Kristen Stewart and actor Jesse Eisenberg for the premiere screening of his film "Cafe Society" 

Actor Vincent London ecsorts a gorgeous Jessica Chastain up the stairs of the Grand Palais. 

Actor Corey Stoll, Blake Lively, director Woody Allen, Kristen Stewart, Jesse Eisenberg and the President of the Festival Pierre Lescure pose for one last photo before  the "Cafe Society" screenign 

Anna Kendrick is anything but  trollish hit the red carpet in support of her DreamWorks Animation film "Trolls"

"Trolls" voice star Justin Timberlake brings his suit and tie to Cannes. 

TheWrap has tabs on the movie stars, filmmakers and executives populating the Croisette

Oscar winner and L'Oreal brand ambassador Julianne Moore leads a pack of glamorous arrivals at the opening night ceremony for the 2016 Cannes Film Festival

 Blake Lively Cafe Society Cannes cannes film festival Jesse Eisenberg Kristen Stewart Laurent Lafitte Roman Polanski united states woody allen

