Advertisement

Advertisement

By ERIC LICHTBLAUMAY 11, 2016


WASHINGTON — The director of the F.B.I. said on Wednesday that he would not be rushed into finishing his agency’s investigation of Hillary Clinton’s emails on an election timetable. And he would not say whether the inquiry would be wrapped up by the November presidential election.

“We want to do it well and we want to do it promptly, so I feel pressure to do both of those things,” James Comey, the F.B.I. director, said.

“I don’t tether to any particular external deadline,” he said, “so I do feel the pressure to do it well and promptly, but as between the two, I always choose well.”

While Mrs. Clinton has characterized the investigation as a “security inquiry,” Mr. Comey said he was “not familiar with the term.”

Advertisement

The F.B.I.’s case began as a security referral from the inspectors general of the State Department and the nation’s intelligence agencies, who were concerned that classified information might have been stored outside a secure government network. But multiple law enforcement officials said the matter quickly became an investigation into whether anyone had committed a crime in handling classified information.

Mr. Comey said he was receiving regular briefings on the status of the investigation, which has included interviews with some of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides at the State Department on her decision to use a private server for all her government business as secretary of state. Some emails that went through her server appear to have been classified at various security levels because of sensitive information.

In his most in-depth discussion with reporters in more than six months, Mr. Comey also said he was deeply concerned about a spike in murder rates in many American cities, including Chicago and Las Vegas, and said he believed the police may have backed off from aggressive tactics for fear of showing up in videos that are widely spread online.

He said he had received a briefing on Wednesday about the rising murder rates in several dozen cities. “Holy cow, do we have a problem,” Mr. Comey said.

Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

Go to Home Page »

