

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Vows to end the coal-mining industry didn't go over well in the West Virginia Democratic primary. Who were those guys who got all the protest votes, anyway?

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

From May through Election Day, Anheuser-Busch is rebranding Budweiser as "America," presumably for everyone who needs to get good and drunk before voting for Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump. Marco Rubio, this Bud's for you.

In today's edition of For the Record: more wins for Trump and Sanders, an explanation of where all the votes went in West Virginia, and Bernie mooching a few bites of chocolate, caramel and crisped rice off Stephen Colbert. We don't have any free candy, but we do have this free newsletter for you ...

USA TODAY

For the Record: Sign up for our politics newsletter

Sanders and Trump, winners of the Almost Heaven primaries. (Photo: AP)

Donald Trump easily won the first two states of the now opponent-free GOP race. Trump claimed 61% of the vote in Nebraska and 77% in West Virginia, with zombie Ted Cruz finishing in second place in both states. "What I want you to do is save your vote — you know, you don't have to vote anymore," Trump had told West Virginia voters at a rally last Thursday, so we can only imagine how big his vote total would have been if his supporters weren't at home resting up for November. Next up for the Republicans: Oregon, a state that Ted Cruz once ceded to John Kasich before both of them got dysentery and died on the campaign trail.

You know who's not tired of voting yet? Nebraska Democrats. Bernie Sanders won the Nebraska caucus in early March, but then state Democrats said, "Hey guys, let's vote again. You know, for fun," and held a nonbinding primary yesterday, which Bernie also won. So depending on how you're counting, Bernmentum has a one-state winning streak, or possibly two. But probably one. Next week for the Democrats: Oregon and Kentucky. Sanders is looking for a surprise doubleheader sweep; Hillary Clinton is aiming for a split.

Apparently West Virginians liked Judd WAY better when he was still incarcerated. (Photo: AP)

For vote-watchers used to seeing the 53-47 splits in Democratic vote results, the 51-36 split in West Virginia was a confusing breath of fresh air. As it turns out, the top two candidates' vows to end the coal-mining industry was about as popular as rolling into New Jersey and calling for an end to spray tanning. Who were the other four, anyway?

Paul T. Farrell: Farrell, the most popular of the four, only ran in his home state as a protest against Clinton and Sanders — one of whom threatened to "put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business" while the other one merely threatened to move them all to Arizona.

Keith Judd: Thousands of West Virginians voted for a man who spent 15 years in prison after mailing someone a gently used copy of Playboy and a knife and sending postcards to others that said, “Send the money back now, Keith Judd, Last Chance or Dead.” Before you say "malfunctioning voting machines," we should point out that in 2012, he won 41% of the West Virginia Democratic vote.

"Rocky" de la Fuente: The San Diego businessman kicked off his campaign by diving into a pool wearing a suit.

Martin O'Malley: Onetime fringe candidate who spent months in Iowa claiming to be a former Maryland governor.

This year's winner: a big ol' pile of money. (Photo: Getty Images)

Barring a complete collapse for one or both candidates, it looks like our Clinton-Trump general election matchup will be a tight race in several key swing states, according to new polling data. The Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll has Trump with a four-point lead in Ohio, with Clinton up by one in both Florida and Pennsylvania. Of the three, only Trump's lead in Ohio is outside the margin of error. "In Pennsylvania, Clinton's 19-point lead among women matches Trump's 21-point margin among men," said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the poll. "In Ohio, she is up 7 points among women but down 15 points with men. In Florida she is up 13 points among women but down 13 points among men."

This election cycle's populist revolt has given us a choice between a millionaire and a billionaire. The 2004 election between George W. Bush and John Kerry was said to come down to which candidate voters would rather have a beer with; this election may as well — presuming you can sneak past security at the country club and then convince the maitre d' to seat you, even though you're wearing jeans.



Stephen Colbert gets an assist from Bernie Sanders to retrieve his 100 Grand. "You can't give up on that contested confection!" Bernie tells Colbert. Not pictured: Hillary cleaning out the majority of vending machines to date.

