

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Lindsey Graham has had all kinds of things to say about Donald Trump, but on Thursday he had a few nice words.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. (Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)

Lindsey Graham has had all kinds of things to say about Donald Trump, but on Thursday he had a few nice words.

The office of the South Carolina senator and well-known Trump critic said that he had spoken with the presumptive GOP nominee on Wednesday. He even — gasp! — called the conversation “pleasant” and said Trump “asked good questions.”



“I had a cordial, pleasant phone conversation with Mr. Trump.  I congratulated him on winning the Republican nomination for President.  I know Mr. Trump is reaching out to many people, throughout the party and the country, to solicit their advice and opinions.  I believe this is a wise move on his part.

We had a good fifteen minute discussion centered on the national security threats facing the United States.  Many of these threats are the result of President Obama’s failed policies. 

I gave him my assessment about where we stand in the fight against ISIL and the long-term danger posed by the Iranian nuclear deal.  He asked good questions.   

Finally, my position remains the same regarding both candidates running for President.  I will do what I can in the Senate to help the next president.  The next president will inherit a mess.”

Last week in a series of tweets he announced he wouldn’t be voting for Trump or Hillary Clinton, saying that he did not believe Trump "is a reliable Republican conservative.” Later, in an interview with CNN, he said “I think Donald Trump is going to places where very few people have gone, and I'm not going with him."

