EXCLUSIVE: No word yet if Dinesh D’Souza’s Hillary’s America: The Secret History of The Democratic Party will be playing in Cleveland when the Republicans have their national convention in the Ohio city from July 18-21 and are expected to nominate Donald Trump for President but the provocative pic will be on the big screen for sure. The third documentary from the bestselling author and D’Souza’s solo directing debut, Hillary’s America is opening on limited release on July 15 before going wide a week later on July 22, Deadline has learned.



Related
George Clooney Says There Will Never Be A President Trump, Bashes Ratings-Obsessed Cable News Networks - Cannes




The timing of the very Clinton critical docu also works perfectly leading into the Democrats’ Philadelphia convention, which starts on July 25 and runs until July 28. Having co-helmed the second most successful docu of all time with 2016: Obama’s America back in 2012 and the 6th most successful docu ever America: Imagine The World Without Her in 2014, D’Souza’s latest and election focused film is based on his book Stealing America: What My Experience with Criminal Gangs Taught Me about Obama, Hillary and the Democratic Party, which came out last November. Like 2016 and America, the Quality Flix/D’Souza Entertainment distributed Hillary’s America is a combo of interviews and reenactments, both historical and contemporary.

D’Souza’s 2014 pic pulled in $14.4 million at the box office while the Obama administration attacked 2012 film made $33.4 million. While D’Souza takes the 6th and 2nd spots, Michael Moore’s 2004 pic Fahrenheit 9/11 is the top-grossing political documentary of all time with $119 million. Since it’s March 5 debut on YouTube, the trailer for Hillary’s America has been viewed almost 1.4 million times as of today.




Recent Comments

Add Comment
30 People Commenting




hbmuzik

14 mins
Oh by the way . . . did you ever see that scientific "masterpiece" AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH...

nyflacon

18 mins
Are you crying?

laxmom3

23 mins
You need to change your moniker..."kool-aid drinking idiot" would work.





Working again with Schindler’s List producer Gerald R. Molen, the new film is the first D’Souza has made since his May 2014 guilty plea for making an illegal political contribution. Citing political persecution, the conservative author and filmmaker was sentenced in September 2014 to eight months in a community confinement center and five years of probation for giving $20,000 to the unsuccessful 2012 GOP Senate campaign of Wendy Long through two other people.

At the same time as D’Souza was sentenced, U.S. District Judge Richard Berman rejected the sterner demands of federal prosecutors but also fined him $30,000 and ordered the writer to do one day of community service a week during his probation period. D’Souza’s encounter with the incarceration system plays a significant part in Hillary’s America.

Anita Busch contributed to this report.

Subscribe to Deadline Breaking News Alerts and keep your inbox happy

Comments On Deadline Hollywood are monitored. So don't go off topic, don't impersonate anyone, and don't get your facts wrong.

Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:

 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )

 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )

 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )

 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )

Connecting to %s

 Notify me of new comments via email.

 







It will be preceded in theaters by newsreel footage of Hitler and Trump side by side.

Rhetoric from paid Hillary troll.

Followed by newsreel footage of the CURRENT “foreign military invasion” linked to photos of an American mall, NEAR YOU, which will make Paris or Brussels look like a  school playground!

You’re not “questioning authority”.  

You need to change your moniker…”kool-aid drinking idiot” would work.

Are you crying?

oh cool he’s out of jail…  well considering how well obama did after this fella released his obama is the devil “doc”  in 2012 before the election…  this is a good sign for hillary i guess

Convicted Felon says “What”?

Unfortunately he’s not as well connected as Hillary.

Being a convicted felon does not make his movie less truthful.

Meanwhile “Trump’s America” was delayed once again for legal reasons. It just looks way too much like the opening scene of Saving Private Ryan. And the sinking scene in Titanic. And the “devastation reaches New York” scene in The Day After Tomorrow. You guessed it : the list goes on.

P.S. Dinesh D’Souza ? Hard pass.

If “Trump’s America” would look like the opening of Saving Private Ryan then “Hillary’s America” would be like Schindler’s List, Red Dawn and “Dumb and Dumber” rolled into one.

I think you are confused.  If we elect another demoncrat, Everywhere from LA & NYC, to small town America, will look like Paris or Brussels because of the “foreign military invasion” America is besieged under!

Only in America could a genuine convicted felon get rich accusing others of being criminals.

Says Hillary.

Hey…anonymous…she’s not a convicted felon. You might not like her, but your jab is way off the mark.

Not yet.

…wishful thinking Anonymous.  Now about the war crimes committed by Bush and Cheney…

War crimes.. You mean Hilary’s war crimes

Hubris will bring down the Left. All the childish comments and anti-Trump blather just shows how helpless the left is when it comes to reality. You had your run and you lit a match to the world. Now we will have to fix it like we have time and time again. All you know is spread misery and death and all you have to counter real hope is hate and ugly words.

and every other person convicted of his “crime” got a slap on the wrist/probabtion he’s the only person to serve time.

All the While Killary walks free

Are u talking about Bill Clinton?

A comedy “documentary” for the Obama/Hilary haters and no one else. And pretty shameless that D’Souza pairs the words “Democrats” with images of the Klan in the first few moments of the trailer.  

And worse, because D’Souza broke the law, he wants viewers to feel sorry for him? Oh, but Hillary’s done much worse and she’s not in jail, says he? “It’s not me, it’s them” is the excuse of *every* lawbreaker. 

For a bunch of people who puff out their chests with faux patriotism all the time and talk about how strong they are, they sure whine and cry for themselves a lot. What a bunch of losers.

Learn your history…  The Democrat Party was part of the KKK. Southern Democrats. Do your research

You might want to learn your own history. There’s no such thing as the “Democrat” party.
But you know that. Because you, like those you follow, prefer to rewrite it fit your own viewpoints.

Actually there is a Democrat Party.  And Yes- the KKK was made up of Southern Democrats.  But you probably think Lincoln was a Democrat too. The Dems have re-written history.

Actually-  there is a Democrat Party.  The Democrats had a large following in the South. south-the KKK was made up of Southern Democrats. Look at Former Senator Byrd- Che was a Member.  I believe both Clintons attended his funeral and spoke of his many great works. Everyone can change and we can forgive.  However, you cannot change history.  Sorry-

…and now the KKK endorses Donald Trump and the Democrats have elected a black president.  My how things have changed.

… because

So in your world and mind, D’Souza’s error of campaign donation not properly reported is comparable to what Clinton has done for decades….lying to the families whose loved ones were killed at Benghazi, smearing the reputations and threatening women her husband went after, supporting the Arab Spring and Irag war which has led to the biggest migration of refugees the world has ever seen,  taking donations from numerous countries while Secretary of State for her family charity, defending a child rapist by attacking a little 12 year old girl victim in court and then laughing about it on video recording, lying about being shot at by sniper fire?….and this list goes on and on. Furthermore, she accomplished nothing as Sec. of State except garnering frequent flyer miles.

Exactly.  Nice Summary.  Sadly many people will ignore her history.

100 up votes.

Ann,
Your assessment is spot on! You left out the fact that she bullied and ruined her rapist husbands victims.

Just who do you think Klansmen  were?  Democrats!  So, it’s not “shameless”… It’s factual history…not the revisionist version Liberal’s try to shove down our throats.

How is portraying the Dem party as closely connected to the Klan historically inaccurate?

Fiction like this completely fabricated crap isn’t supposed to passed off as documentary.

Debunk it then.

When i read your post, the image of a 4 year old covering their ears screaming “lalala” comes to mind.

Oh by the way . . . did you ever see that scientific “masterpiece” AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH by Al Bore?  Now there’s a docu-bomba! Wait….of course you saw it–and probably believed every word.

The Hillary “documentary” should be as good as Trump’s tax data — if and when it’s ever released.

See Trump interview with Alex Jones. – Unbelievable – https://www.youtube.com/watch?…

Because Dsouza’s previous movie and Fahrenheit 9/11 really stopped Obama and Bush in their tracks…NOT.

Cuz, u bee watchin’ and votin’ to the tune of mainstream media.

Looks like a good movie. Hilldog won’t like it.

Can’t wait!!!

I am totally waiting for political films before I make my decision

Can’t wait for all the democrat voters heads to explode when trump wins.

Can’t wait for the world to explode when trump wins.

fixed that for you.

Probably. It’s time for some large scale population control. The whole place has gone to the dogs anyway.

So far these comments are going to drive more people to see the movie.

Dinesh D’Souza will be deported no matter who wins in November.

The CLOT thickens!

Muahahahahhaha!

Trying to understand that this movie is a legitmate  explanation into HRC’s past and present requires an open mind. Many of the liberal commenters here are incapable of such. Now all of you Democrat idiots have fun and don’t forget your popcorn!

good man

Please, G*d, make it stop. His Obama film was the single stupidest piece of propaganda I ever forced myself to sit through.

Sadly, the biggest propaganda you’ve sat through is watching the lies the DNC has fed you.

Obama is the stupidest piece of human waste in presidential history. Maybe that is what bored you so much.

America wants entertainment. Clinton will fail because she is a terrible candidate. This exposure is fine, but not needed. As the months go on and Trump rises in the polls, she will be counciled to match his formula for success, when you see her try to act like him, you’ll know she has lost.

America wants entertainment. Clinton will fail because she is a terrible candidate. This exposure is fine, but not needed. As the months go on and Trump rises in the polls, she will be counciled to match his formula for success, when you see her try to act like him, you’ll know she has lost.

Oh you liberal fools. If u vote for Hillary because she is a woman means you probably would eat a turd because it looks like a tootsie roll

Lol

Lmao

Benghazi Hillary Clinton is an evil, lying, cheating, caustic, vicious, foul-mouthed, cackling, crooked, rapist enabling, incompetent old witch who let four Americans be murdered by a gang of rabid Muslims in Benghazi because of her incompetence as Sec. of State.

I’m a DEM and my mind is made up! Don’t confuse me with the facts!


More

Cannes Film Review: 'After Love'

Castle Cancelled: Stana Katic Pens Note to Fans, and Other Cast…

Video: Selena Gómez y Orlando Bloom se retiraron juntos del club…

Meghan Trainor Takes Super Scary Stage Fall Performing On 'The…

There's finally a wireless charger that's truly wireless

Copyright © 2016 Penske Business Media, LLC. All rights reserved.
			HOLLYWOOD™ & Design © 2016 Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. The Hollywood Sign is a trademark and intellectual property of Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. All Rights Reserved.
		

Powered by WordPress.com VIP

