 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

A series of cybersecurity incidents at the federal office safeguarding bank deposits has seriously shaken the confidence of House members who were dismayed by agency testimony Thursday.

Lawrence Gross, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s chief information and chief privacy officer, was called before the panel to explain the removal of sensitive electronic data by employees. Members also accused the agency of obstructing a congressional investigation into the cyber-issues.

The House Science, Space and Technology oversight subcommittee also sought more information on a sophisticated cybertheft of FDIC data that subcommittee Chairman Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.) said was likely done by the Chinese.

Since October, a series of violations by seven employees as they were leaving the agency, including five cases The Post reported earlier this week, resulted in the breach of personal information belonging to more than 160,000 individuals, according to Loudermilk.

“To date, FDIC has failed to notify any of those individuals that their private information may have been compromised,” he added. An FDIC spokesperson confirmed they have not been notified and said “we are going to offer credit monitoring” to the affected individuals. The information includes names, bank account numbers and possibly Social Security numbers in some cases.

The seven apparently unrelated violations occurred “inadvertently,” according to Gross when the staffers downloaded their own information from work computers as they were resigning from the agency.

Republicans and Democrats were incredulous.

“I have a hard time understanding how you can inadvertently download 10,000 customer records,” Rep. Don Beyer (Va.), the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee, told Gross. Ten thousand was the low end. One case involved 49,000 records. Gross’s contention that the former employees “were not computer proficient” only made matters worse.

This, Beyer said, “boggles the mind.”

Rep. Darin LaHood (R-Ill.) was troubled by Gross’s attitude toward the breaches, which the congressman called “dismissive” and “nonchalant.”

He focused on one case where a former employee denied taking data from the agency and even said she did not know what an external hard drive is. Yet, the former staffer, who went to work for a financial services firm owned by a company based in Bangalore, India, eventually provided the drive to FDIC after government lawyers told her attorney she could face criminal penalties.

Nonetheless, Gross stood by his contention that the former staffer was not adversarial.

Fred W. Gibson Jr., FDIC’s acting inspector general, disagreed with that assessment. He also said one case, which he would not identify, is the subject of a criminal investigation. Gibson said labeling the employee breaches “inadvertent,” as Gross has done, could make it harder to prosecute employees who took agency data home.

Loudermilk and others chided FDIC for not quickly reporting the breaches to Congress as “major incidents” and not providing the committee with all requested documents.

Accusing FDIC of “a pattern of obstruction,” Rep. Lamar Smith, chairman of the full panel, said “if not for the Office of Inspector General’s openness and transparency with the committee, we would not have been aware of the agency’s attempts to avoid providing a full and complete response to the committee. The FDIC’s repeated efforts to conceal information from Congress are inexcusable.”

Gross said the agency has been responsive to committee demands. His “initial judgment” was the incidents were not serious enough to be labeled major. “I judged the risk of harm to be very low,” he said.

After review by the inspector general’s office, however, he reversed that determination and expedited notification to Congress. Congress would have been notified in any case, he said, adding it was just a matter of timing.

Loudermilk also pressed agency officials on a sophisticated cybertheft from a foreign power, “supposedly China,” that hit FDIC computers, including one used by the former agency head, during 2010 and 2011.

A 2013 inspector general’s report said FDIC’s division of information technology managers “breached their duties in their handling of this incident” when they “elected not to report, or to underreport, information regarding the incident over an extended period of time.”

Gibson said his office is conducting two audits related to cyberbreaches. One is examining how FDIC identifies and reports major security incidents. The other is assessing agency controls for mitigating the risk of an unauthorized release of sensitive information from financial institutions.

Loudermilk also plans to continue the committee’s probe into FDIC cybersecurity problems.

Gross’s testimony, he said, point to “significant security vulnerabilities,” at an agency where officials are “either incompetent or … naïve.”

Read more:

[FDIC cyberattacks included foreign hit on former chairwoman’s computer]

[FDIC reports five ‘major incidents’ of cybersecurity breaches since fall]

[‘Inadvertent’ cyber breach hits 44,000 FDIC customers]

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

powerpost

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

