
      By Rebecca Savransky

Former Speaker John BoehnerJohn BoehnerBlumenthal demurs on whether he still emails with Clinton The Trail 2016: Unification of the Grand Trump Party  The real significance of Prime Minister Modi's address to Congress MORE (R-Ohio) on Thursday took shots at Sen. Ted CruzTed CruzCruz: Those who bolstered Trump 'will bear that responsibility going forward' The Trail 2016: Unification of the Grand Trump Party  Carson to lead Trump’s outreach to former presidential rivals   MORE (R-Texas) and said he wouldn't be surprised if Hillary ClintonHillary Rodham ClintonPoll: Clinton leads Trump by 2 points nationwide Blumenthal demurs on whether he still emails with Clinton Meet the down-ballot Democrats caught up in Clinton's Coal Country catastrophe MORE ends up withdrawing from the presidential race.

Addressing the SALT Conference in Las Vegas, the former Speaker suggested that Democrats might have to turn to Vice President Biden to be their 2016 nominee.

BoehnerJohn BoehnerBlumenthal demurs on whether he still emails with Clinton The Trail 2016: Unification of the Grand Trump Party  The real significance of Prime Minister Modi's address to Congress MORE says he "would not be surprised at all" if Clinton "has to withdraw" and Biden "parachutes in." #SALT2016

Republicans have long speculated that the FBI investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server could result in criminal charges, wounding her candidacy.

Boehner, who resigned from Congress last fall amid an uprising from conservatives, also hammered Cruz, who was often his adversary in high-profile legislative fights.

"Thank God that guy from Texas didn't win" the nomination, Boehner said.

Boehner: 'Thank god that guy from Texas didn't win' nomination #SALT2016

Boehner had called Cruz "Lucifer in the flesh" and a "miserable son of a bitch" before last week's Indiana primary sealed the Republican nomination for Donald TrumpDonald TrumpPoll: Clinton leads Trump by 2 points nationwide Priebus: 'I don't know if anyone cares' about Trump's taxes Trump denies posing as own spokesman in 1990s MORE.

"I got criticized by some satanic organization for giving Lucifer a bad name," Boehner quipped.

John Boehner on calling Ted Cruz 'Lucifer': 'I got criticized by some satantic organization for giving Lucifer a bad name.' #SALT2016

Boehner said anyone who thinks Trump can't win the White House should "just watch."

"This is going to be a presidential campaign like we've never seen before," he said.

John Boehner: ‘Anyone who thinks Donald Trump can’t win, just watch. This is going to be a pres. campaign like we’ve never seen.’ #SALT2016

And he said even if Republicans aren't unified around Trump, he said everyone shares the goal of winning the White House. He predicted the GOP will hold the House this fall despite predictions from Democrats that the chamber could be in play.

Boehner: Republicans may not be unified around Trump but they are unified in wanting to win the White House #SALT2016

Boehner: GOP will hold the House of Reps in the fall elections #SALT2016

More in News/Campaigns   Boehner: Ted Cruz a 'miserable son of a bitch'
Read more »



Read more »

View the discussion thread.

More Videos »

Sponsored:

        

The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax

The contents of this site are ©2016 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.

