

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Former Arizona governor Jan Brewer could be on Donald Trump’s vice presidential short list.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Former Arizona governor Jan Brewer speaks before Donald Trump at his rally in Fountain Hills, Ariz., on March 19, 2016. (Photo: David Wallace, The Arizona Republic)

Former Arizona governor Jan Brewer could be on Donald Trump’s vice presidential short list.

During an interview Wednesday with Fox News Channel’s On the Record, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said Brewer, who left office in 2015 after serving six years as governor, is “fantastic.”

Trump has said he will announce his vice presidential pick during the GOP convention in July.

Trump dropped clues about who he may be considering during an interview with Greta Van Susteren, saying he was considering five to seven people. He said he is looking for someone experienced in government.

On Tuesday night, Susteren said, Brewer had suggested Trump consider Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin.

“Well also Jan. Jan Brewer has been fantastic,” Trump said. “She has been so fantastic. You know I won so big, her territory, and we won so big. And she is a fabulous woman. And I agree with you, the governor of Oklahoma — fabulous person.”

Trump would not say whether New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is in the mix but called him “a very good guy” and a “talented guy.”

USA TODAY

Christie to head up Trump transition team

Brewer said Wednesday night she had not heard about Trump’s comments to Fox.

But, she added, “Like I’ve always said, I’m honored to be able to support him and I would be honored to serve him in any capacity.”

On Sunday, Brewer said during a national news show she was “willing” to appear on a national ticket with Trump but also said she didn’t necessarily think he should pick a woman.

Brewer, who became a conservative icon of sorts during her six-year tenure as governor, appeared on CNN's State of the Union. She and other panelists were shown a short list of 10 potential Trump running mates, which included Sen. Marco Rubio, former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Fallin and former speaker Newt Gingrich.

The names flashed across the screen and Brewer was asked by CNN's Jake Tapper whether she had a favorite among those names, saying, "... and what about you?"

"Who made up that list," Brewer said, laughing. "They didn't put me on there."

Tapper responded, "What about you? What about Jan Brewer? Would you be willing to be considered?"

She answered, "Of course I would be! I would be willing to serve in any capacity that I could be of help with Donald on. But that's a tremendous list of people to choose from. They're all very wonderful people, well-qualified. I certainly think that Newt, I've known him for a long time, we all have experienced what he can get done in Washington, D.C. And Marco Rubio would be terrific. Mary Fallin would be terrific."

Contributing: The Arizona Republic's Dan Nowicki 

