

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Dan Quayle thinks Donald Trump is a “more qualified” candidate than Hillary Clinton for what voters are looking for and the Republican party should rally around him.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Former vice president Dan Quayle is interviewed in 2014. (Photo: AP)

Dan Quayle thinks Donald Trump is a “more qualified” candidate than Hillary Clinton and the Republican Party should rally around him.

The former vice president, who served under George H.W. Bush, appeared on NBC’s Today show Thursday and said that Trump was more qualified than Clinton in this particular election because people want an outsider.

"On paper, you'd say, well, she's more qualified. But you know what? He's more qualified in the sense that the American people, I think, want an outsider," Quayle said. "And they want an outsider this time. She's not an outsider, so if you're looking for an outsider, no, she's not qualified, and he is."

Quayle also told CNN in an interview that aired on New Day Thursday that he had faith the party would be able to come together and back their presumptive nominee, though he acknowledged some holdouts would remain. George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush and Jeb Bush have all indicated they had no plans to endorse, with Jeb Bush writing in a recent Facebook post he would not vote for Trump.

“In the normal sorting out process, the cream usually goes to the top, right?  And I didn't realize that Donald Trump was going to be the cream that got to the top. I totally misjudged his ability to win,” he said.

As for whether Trump would turn over his tax returns, Quayle wasn't optimistic.

"He's not gonna do that," Quayle said on Today laughing, before adding that all rules that governed previous nominees are null with Trump.

"Let me give you a little news flash here: This is gonna be different, he's a different candidate. It's gonna be a different campaign so stay tuned," Quayle said.

