

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Donald Trump’s campaign disavowed a former butler Thursday for declaring in a Facebook post that President Obama should be killed.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a rally, Friday, May 6, 2016, in Omaha, Neb. (Photo: Charlie Neibergall, AP)

Donald Trump’s campaign disavowed a former butler Thursday for declaring in a Facebook post that President Obama should be killed.

“Tony Senecal has not worked at Mar-a-Lago for years, but nevertheless we totally and completely disavow the horrible statements made by him,” spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in a statement. Hicks did not immediately respond to a USA TODAY question about Senecal’s claims to Mother Jones, which first reported the threatening post, that he was still the in-house historian at Mar-A-Lago.

Senecal — the butler who worked for Trump for 17 years — posted on Facebook Wednesday and said Obama should have been “taken out by our military and shot as an enemy agent in his first term," adding that Trump would "put an end to the corruption in government," while calling likely Democratic nominee a murderer.

Senecal’s Facebook profile is public, but Wednesday's post is not showing up publicly. However, the former butler confirmed he wrote it to Mother Jones.

The Wednesday message is not the first inflammatory post from Senecal about Obama. He called on the president to be killed in Facebook messages from 2015 as well, Mother Jones notes.

The Secret Service said they were aware and investigating.

"The U.S. Secret Service is aware of this matter and will conduct the appropriate investigation,” a spokesman from the agency said in a statement.

