 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

The talks were closely watched as the leaders came together at a neutral location, looking to head off a full-scale war. So did Paul Ryan and Donald Trump achieve peace in our time?

At a minimum, there's détente. The pair "struck a conciliatory tone after meeting in Washington Thursday," reported Jose DelReal and Mike DeBonis.

“While we were honest about our few differences, we recognize that there are also many important areas of common ground,” Trump and Ryan said after their meeting at the Republican National Committee headquarters on Capitol Hill, by way of a joint statement that pointed to their "shared principles."

Left unmentioned: anything at all about what that "common ground" or those "shared principles" might be, beyond opposition to President Obama and Hillary Clinton.

But the peace talks will continue, they said. "We will be having additional discussions, but remain confident there’s a great opportunity to unify our party and win this fall, and we are totally committed to working together to achieve that goal."

Ryan said he was “encouraged” by their conversation Thursday. But the speaker surrendered no ground — there was no Trump endorsement forthcoming. Yet.

The trip from Trump skeptic to supporter is a particularly tough one for Ryan, notes DeBonis:

"As a member of Congress, there are many ways to stake out a reputation as a lonely, iconoclastic man of principle. Being elected speaker of the House is not typically one of them.

"But that is where Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) finds himself as Donald Trump assumes the title of presumptive Republican presidential nominee — torn between the conservative principles he has spent his adult life advocating and his institutional responsibility as House speaker to respect GOP voters’ choice of standard-bearer.

"Ryan’s own political future as a national leader hangs in that balance, and Thursday’s meeting made clear that his only viable path through the dilemma involves cooperation from Trump, who has premised his candidacy on standing apart not only from party leaders but also policy ideas Ryan holds dear.

"A joint statement released by the two men Thursday appeared to chart a path to comity. But any alliance would bind Ryan more closely to Trump’s incessant cycle of controversy and threaten to tarnish his image. ..."

Still, that alliance is inevitable, says Chris Cillizza — and Ryan's journey to yes right now may be as much about the voyage as the destination.

"What Ryan...[is] doing is showing Republican candidates (incumbents and challengers) the best way to deal with Donald Trump as the party's nominee. To summarize, those steps include:

"1. Talk about how bad Hillary Clinton would be as president

"2. Emphasize that you don't agree with Trump on every issue or his tone in every moment

"3. Note that on key issues to the Republican base — abortion, Supreme Court, the Constitution — Trump sees things the way you do

"The obvious fourth step of that process is to endorse Trump. Ryan didn't do that on Thursday, but my gosh it certainly sounded like he plans to in the not-too-distant future — assuming that Trump doesn't blow up the gains made from this meeting. (This is Trump we are talking about, so that sort of self-sabotage is absolutely possible.)

"What Ryan's reaction to his meeting with Trump today suggests is that the speaker has concluded that withholding support for the party's nominee or aggressively urging down-ballot candidates to run away from Trump carries more political risk than does cautiously and guardedly embracing his candidacy.

"It's a risk. But when it comes to Trump and what it means for individual candidates or the broader future of the GOP, everything is a risk.  Ryan appears to have made up his mind on what leap of faith he is prepared to make over the next six months."

WEATHER UPDATE: DC: Cloudy, with a chance of overnight showers. Hell: Frozen, probably.

Trump made diplomatic progress on another front today.

You may recall that Lindsey Graham once compared the idea of a Trump nomination to the prospect of "being shot" (A Cruz win was the less-violent, though no less fatal, death by "poisoning.") Earlier this week, he told reporters "that 'no re-education camp' would change his mind and added he would likely write someone else in for president when he casts his ballot this fall," reports Paul Kane.

It's the rare position he doesn't share with John McCain, who has (reluctantly) backed the presumptive nominee:

"In the Republican civil war over Trump, this is perhaps the most glaring example of two 'brothers' fighting on opposite sides of the battlefield. It reflects a larger chasm in the Republican Party over whether to embrace the anti-establishment businessman that could end up costing the party the presidency in November.

"'I was in the contest — he wasn’t. That’s the main difference, I think,' Graham said, explaining McCain’s ability to support Trump."

Still, even if Graham and Trump never quite become allies, today the two appeared to sign on to a mutual non-aggression pact. "I had a cordial, pleasant phone conversation with Mr. Trump," the South Carolina senator said in a statement Thursday afternoon. I congratulated him on winning the Republican nomination for President. I know Mr. Trump is reaching out to many people, throughout the party and the country, to solicit their advice and opinions. I believe this is a wise move on his part." He added that the two had had "a good fifteen minute discussion centered on the national security threats facing the United States" and that Trump "asked good questions."

Like Ryan, Graham hasn't endorsed Trump; unlike Ryan, there probably isn't an endorsement waiting in the wings. But for Trump — a man the senator once called a "nut job" and a "loser" who was "ill-suited to be president" (among many, many other things) — today's statement marks a win.

So today marked progress for Trump on the party unity front. It's a very, very long way from a joint statement in May to kumbaya in Cleveland. But if the presumptive nominee did manage to make peace with most of his party....his image numbers could look a lot like Clinton's.

"Why does Trump care about getting more mainstream Republicans to like him? He claims not to. But there's a very good reason that he should,"  says Philip Bump. "Favorability ratings and election outcomes correlate. Right now, Trump is viewed more unfavorably than Hillary Clinton by a decent-sized margin. But that's largely because Republicans are much more skeptical of him than Democrats are of Clinton.

"....Trump's favorability is about equal to Clinton's if he can get Republicans to come home. In recent elections, that has happened. In 2012, in fact, Mitt Romney trailed President Obama in favorability after the primaries in part because Republicans were skittish. That changed.

"There's a lot riding on Trump's favorability, and a lot riding on Republicans in that regard. No wonder the guy who hates Washington made time to fly down and make nice with a group of people that might be able to shore up his support.

"His candidacy could depend on it."

THE VIEW FROM THE TRUMP-RYAN TALKS: As the speaker's spokesman noted last night: some of the audience arrived long before the stars did.

There are already four sat trucks outside the RNC. SMH.

By morning, the rest had descended.

"In an email to journalists Tuesday, Paul Ryan’s press secretary AshLee Strong tried to make one thing clear: 'You should know that Thursday’s Ryan-Trump meeting is not the most important thing happening in D.C. this week.'

"Clearly, the media disagree," reported Callum Borchers.

"The scene outside Republican National Committee headquarters, shown live on cable news...resembled what viewers are accustomed to seeing at a high-profile jury trial, with demonstrators hoisting signs and throngs of reporters waiting for the principals to emerge bearing news. You could be forgiven for thinking the pope had returned to town.

Six-split screen! What will happen with that guy's arm? That moving car? pic.twitter.com/mkSfYdi9mW

"There wasn’t this much interest in actual voting in West Virginia and Nebraska this week," he notes. "But the implications of the Ryan-Trump meeting are enormous for the media; the result could shape the election narrative on the Republican side.

"A long-lingering question has been whether GOP leaders and other establishment types who previously expressed reservations about Trump as the party’s standard-bearer will rally around him, keep their distance or outright reject him. Some have already made their decisions, but the House speaker — whom John A. Boehner and others wanted to make a late entry into the presidential race — is the most symbolically important and could set the tone for other skeptical Republicans.

"Ryan’s choice will also go a long way toward determining whether media coverage in the next six months portrays a united Republican party or a fractured one. And the media will have to wait at least a little longer for Ryan to make his call."

Good day to be a dude with a papier mache Trump head pic.twitter.com/ratYJT38wb

Immigration activists have declared the GOP dead and are standing around a cardboard coffin: pic.twitter.com/n5lDG5J5bB

Media chasing a bagpiper now at Trump-Ryan meeting pic.twitter.com/39CGdlqJUI

Happening now at Trump/Ryan meeting: Shofar Guy and protestor singing "We Are the World" arguing over Trump. pic.twitter.com/E9ImsHYYzr

That's what it looked like. Here's what it sounded like: "'God decided the election!' the man shouted from underneath a giant and not-very-accurate papier-mâché model of Donald Trump’s head. 'I am God of the GOP..." reported Jenna Johnson, Cristobal Vasquez and David Fahrenthold.

"'TOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT,' interrupted the man next to him, a pro-Trump activist playing a ram’s-horn trumpet he had purchased on eBay.

"'This is the way things are!' the papier-mâché head continued, his voice a little muffled under the costume. He was an anti-Trump protester from the group Code Pink, attacking Trump by impersonating him and acting egotistical. 'And you women...'

"'TOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT!' went the horn again, blaring over the words of the head.

"As Trump held closed-door meetings Thursday with Republican leaders in Washington, the scene outside captured an election where Americans became so divided, they even forgot how to disagree.

"On the Capitol Hill sidewalk, a man who was barely making sense was drowned out by a man who was making random noises.

Protests before #Trump arrival to #RNC pic.twitter.com/6RSOcuC5ZT

DEMS IN...(we won't say it. Because we don't have to.)

As Republicans worked on coming together, Democrats have never seemed further apart.

"Where bean-counters point out that Sanders’s Indiana and West Virginia wins did not get him the delegates he needed to catch Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, Bernie’s army sees momentum begetting more momentum," reports Dave Weigel from Oregon, ahead of next week's primary. 

"Democrats increasingly see a headache — and a paradox. Clinton is closer to the nomination than Barack Obama was at a similar point in the 2008 primaries. Then, the pledged delegate lead for the senator from Illinois shrank below 100; her lead is nearly 300. He functionally tied Clinton in the popular vote; she leads Sanders by close to 3 million votes.

"When they discuss the coming primaries in Oregon and in their own states, Democrats no longer conceal a desire to wrap this up. And yet, Clinton’s strategy of riding out the nomination fight — and turning her attention to the general election — may be hardening the beliefs of Sanders voters. She cannot take full advantage of the split in Donald Trump’s GOP without a strong left flank accusing her of selling it out."

"Bernie has had a very good run," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), whose June 7 state looms largest for the Bernie movement. "He has made his point. But I actually want to see it end. I want to see the Democratic Party win this, and it’s pretty clear to me that Hillary Clinton is the standard-bearer. The more the contention continues, the more difficult it is for the standard-bearer."

The math that has put the nomination just about out of reach for Sanders is clear to analysts, to Democratic strategists, to Republicans — but not to many supporters in the final primary contests. "He’s going to win the whole west coast," said Angelique Orman, 44, relaxing on the lawn of a massive Sanders rally near Eugene. "The conscience factor is working for him. Everyone I know there is voting for him."

It appears Clinton supporters may be laying low. "In places such as Portland, support for the all-but-certain nominee of the Democratic Party is invisible," says Weigel. On that note: Around 65,000 previously unaffiliated Oregon voters have switched to the Democratic Party this year, reports the LA Times.

("Hillary is like the definition of systemic racism, personified" and "in the back pocket of so many people," said one 24-year-old Sanders Oregon supporter.

She also said that if Clinton became nominee, the former secretary of state wouldn't get her goodwill — but would have her vote.) 

Looking ahead:

Another potentially Bernie-favorable registration trend, this time in CA https://t.co/RRPFJprrRD pic.twitter.com/3VxXUMnxcC

TRAIL MIX:

—The latest Trump finance development of the week: California allies are rolling out new pro-Trump super PAC with a goal of of raising $20 million by July.

—The news cycle giveth, the news cycle taketh away: So far this week, Donald Trump's supporters seem to be the cause of bigger headaches than his opponents. Yesterday, white nationalist William Johnson resigned from Trump's California delegate slate because the campaign "[doesn't] need the baggage." Today came news that longtime Trump butler Anthony Senecal had called for Obama's death on Facebook — statements Trump's team promptly disavowed." (By the way: here's where we remind you that tomorrow is Friday the 13th. So. You know. Brace yourselves.)

—Campaign ad volume is up 122 percent over this time in 2012, according to the new Wesleyan University political advertising study (a big jump, though maybe not unexpected in a cycle that featured competitive nomination fights in both parties, rather than just one.) Some great nuggets in the analysis, including a confirmation of what you've probably already noticed: when it comes to attack spots, candidates and outside groups have a good cop/bad cop routine going on.

—This week, you may have heard that Donald Trump has softened his position on banning Muslims, because that is a thing some people were saying. If so: you heard wrong.

—Beyond the trail: Tomorrow, Texas Republicans vote on whether to secede from the Union. (They probably won't.)

—Trump's Capitol Hill visit today happened to fall on the Senate Carry-Out's Taco Thursday. You'll probably guess what happened next....

YOUR DAILY TRAIL PIT STOP: Many of you have dreamed of the day you might finally see a pundit eat his own words. Today, thanks to Dana Milbank's early miscalculation of Donald Trump's odds of claiming the GOP nomination, we at The Washington Post are happy to make your dreams come true. Here, aided by renowned chef Victor Albisu of Washington’s Del Campo restaurant: he consumes his Trump column a la carte.

politics



post-politics





 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics



post-politics





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

politics

*Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

