

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Sen. Rob Portman’s campaign announced Thursday it had reserved $14 million worth of TV ad time to push his re-election bid in Ohio in a race that could help determine which party controls the Senate. The campaign will spend another $1 million on YouTube ads.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Rob Portman speaks on Capitol Hill on April 14, 2016. (Photo: Meg Vogel, The Cincinnati Enquirer)

In the first big ante of the season, GOP Sen. Rob Portman’s campaign announced Thursday it had reserved $14 million worth of TV ad time to push his re-election bid in Ohio in a race that could help determine which party controls the Senate. The campaign will spend another $1 million on YouTube ads.

The move makes Portman the first Senate candidate in the country to reserve airtime through Election Day, a clear signal that he is anticipating a brutal race. Portman faces former Democratic governor Ted Strickland in a race that polls show is a virtual tie.

Given Ohio’s status as a pivotal battleground state, Portman is considered one of the most vulnerable Republican incumbents in 2016. The Ohio Republican’s bid for a second term is complicated by Donald Trump’s status as the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.

Trump’s controversial positions and incendiary rhetoric have alienated women, minorities, and moderates — voting blocs that Portman will need to win re-election.

USA TODAY

Ohio Senate candidates tangle over Trump

But Strickland has lagged far behind Portman in fundraising, and the Ohio Democrat may have a hard time responding to Portman’s advertising blitz.

Portman raised $2.4 million in the first three months of the year, and he ended March with $13.5 million in the bank. Strickland raised about $1.5 million in that quarter and he closed March with $2.7 million in cash on hand.

“Our paid media campaign will detail what is at stake in the Ohio Senate race: Rob's vision for a brighter future or a return to Ted Strickland's Ohio when the state lost more than 350,000 jobs and ranked 48th in job creation,” Portman’s campaign manager, Corry Bliss, said in a statement. “The days of Ted Strickland hiding from his awful record are over — every Ohio voter will soon learn why Ted is the worst Senate candidate in America.”

Michawn Rich, a spokesman for Portman’s campaign, said this would not be a typical ad blitz. The campaign plans to micro-target voters in different regions across the state, using highly sophisticated data to reach different demographic groups.

David Bergstein, a spokesman for Strickland, said the ad buy wouldn’t erase Portman’s electoral problems. He pointed to a poll released Wednesday by Quinnipiac University that found that 42% of registered Ohio voters said they didn’t know enough about Portman to have an opinion.

CINCINNATI.COM

Ohio voters want action on Supreme Court nominee

“Given the fact that 40 percent of voters can’t pick Senator Portman out of a lineup, it’ll cost him at least $15 million to fix his embarrassing lack of name identification,” Bergstein said. “No amount of money can change the fact that Portman is the ultimate Washington insider with a decades-long career of backing unfair trade deals that have sent hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs overseas to places like China — or that Portman is running alongside Donald Trump, the most toxic presidential nominee in modern history.”

The Buckeye State’s Senate race is among a handful that will determine which party controls the Senate in 2017.

