

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Not only will Donald Trump not release his tax returns before an audit is completed, he also won't reveal what tax rate he pays.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Embed

Share


    In today's "Morning Must Read," Bloomberg's Tom Keene tackles the issue of presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's tax returns.
    Bloomberg

Not only will Donald Trump not release his tax returns before an audit is completed, he also won't reveal what tax rate he pays.

"It's none of your business," Trump told ABC's Good Morning America on Friday when asked what percentage of income he pays in taxes.

The presumptive Republican presidential nominee repeated that he won't release his returns until an ongoing audit is completed, and that may or may not happen before the November election.

"Nobody should give until audits are over," Trump said.

Trump's critics, raging from 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney to 2016 Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, have said Trump is trying to hide something by withholding his tax returns.

Noting that presidential candidates are expected to provide tax returns, Clinton told supporters this week: “So you’ve got to ask yourself, why doesn’t he want to release them? ... Yeah, well, we’re going to find out.”

During the ABC interview, Trump accused Clinton of hypocrisy, citing "all the missing emails that she's got."

The New York businessman also told Good Morning America that he tries to pay as little in taxes as possible because "this country wastes our money. They take our tax money and throw it down the drain."

