

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

Four labor groups and a billionaire environmentalist form PAC to elect Democrats.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

Tom Steyer, a billionaire environmentalist, has joined forces with organized labor to launch a new super PAC to help Democrats. (Photo: H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY)

Billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer and four labor groups are launching a new super PAC to elect Democrats to the White House and Congress this year.

The new group, For Our Future PAC, has a short-term goal of raising $50 million and plans to "mobilize working families" in key battleground states, according to a news release.

Organizers say the group willÂ remain active beyond November's election and collaborate with other liberal organizations in the years ahead. The AFL-CIO, The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association have joined together with Steyer's NextGen Climate organization to form the super PAC.

"We are building organizational capacity for the long haul,"Â Amanda Brown, campaign director for the new group, said in a statement. "While we want to win in our election fights, we have an eye towards building a diverse organization and coalition at the community level to work together and stay together over the course of time."

Brown, former political director of Rock the Vote, is among four staffers leading the new group. Many have ties to President Obama. Paul Tewes, a veteran Democratic operative who ran Obama's successful Iowa caucus campaign in 2008, will run For Our Future. Its field director,Â Gregory Jackson Jr., worked forÂ WashingtonÂ Mayor Muriel Bowser andÂ Obama's advocacy group, Organizing for Action.

Politicofirst reported on the unions' collaboration. Steyer announced his involvement Thursday, and the former hedge-fund manager has said he will match funds collected by the unionsÂ but has not disclosed his exact financial commitment.

Steyer isÂ one the biggest donors in Democratic politics. He pumpedÂ $74 million ofÂ his fortune into federal elections two years ago and recently announced a $25 million campaign to turn outÂ the youth vote ahead of November's election.

