

Hillary Clinton at the Brown & Black Forum, Monday, January 11, 2016, in Des Moines, Iowa. (AP Photo / Charlie Neibergall)

Donald Trump’s ideal opponent is a member of the establishment, Steve Fraser argues—the kind that used to be called a “limousine liberal.” Hillary Clinton, he argues, fits the bill perfectly.					
Start Making Sense is hosted by Jon Wiener and co-produced by the Los Angeles Review of Books.

Also: The only way Trump could win, says Ari Berman, is through suppressing the vote of Democrats in half a dozen swing states. A state-by-state survey suggests he’s unlikely to succeed.		
And historian Eric Foner takes up the question that has troubled Bernie Sanders’s supporters for months: How did he lose the African-American vote to Clinton?		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Start Making Sense is hosted by Jon Wiener and co-produced by the Los Angeles Review of Books.

Also: The only way Trump could win, says Ari Berman, is through suppressing the vote of Democrats in half a dozen swing states. A state-by-state survey suggests he’s unlikely to succeed.		
And historian Eric Foner takes up the question that has troubled Bernie Sanders’s supporters for months: How did he lose the African-American vote to Clinton?		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


And historian Eric Foner takes up the question that has troubled Bernie Sanders’s supporters for months: How did he lose the African-American vote to Clinton?		
Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher, and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.


 Start Making Sense
Twitter
 Start Making Sense is The Nation’s podcast, featuring lively conversations with the writers, activists, and artists who shape the week in news, hosted by Jon Wiener. Subscribe on iTunes, Stitcher and SoundCloud for new episodes each Thursday.

 Jon Wiener
Twitter
 Jon Wiener is a contributing editor of The Nation.

To submit a correction for our consideration, click here. 

For Reprints and Permissions, click here.

In order to comment, you must be logged in as a paid subscriber.  Click here to log in or subscribe.

As a long time Nation subscriber I&apos;m beginning to question why I keep reading it.  Keep your misguided, purist-progressive finger on the scale for Bernie - deny her the nomination if you will or weaken her further yet as a general election candidate.  But then spare us the future editorials and articles bemoaning why we can&apos;t elect a woman to the presidency.

Eric Foner: NO!! its not "creepy" that Hillary has aligned with the mothers of black men slain with guns. What&apos;s creepy is the outrageous number of guns in this country and the unconscionable laws and  culture that support gun violence. Count on me to stand up with Hillary, mothers, women.  It has to stop.

This is not rocket science.  Obama-Clinton are like Mercedes-Benz.  It&apos;s the association, stupid.

I suspect it’s largely a combination of anti-jewish and pro-christian sentiment among the melanin enriched population, who have a historical reputation for holding those social prejudices. If Trump selects a running mate to bait enough Afro-voters, while keeping white folks inline, he can win. My first guess for that roll, Colin Powell, at eighty, is too aged. Next down the tiny list is Ben Carson. If they can sufficiently control his embarrassing tendencies to offer his opinions and “insights” about politics and history, Carson will turn some percentage of melanin-consumed citizens to his side. Also, he is “evangelical”, which will snag more indeterminate shoals of the Jeebus cult. (Disclaimer: I was indoctrinated as Catholic, but threw the conditioning upon reaching my "Age of Reason", in my early teens. Now, I respond positively to the term "Pagan", or some variation of that.)

If anyone wants to understand why a huge swath of African America Americans vote for Hillary, please read someone who knows a lot better than these guys from The Nation: https://newrepublic.com/article/124391/yes-she-can

I wish these guys would start making sense. Ha! Trump gets out of limosines all the time. "Fact as affect, not fact as truth" is an adage that pertains to both Bernie supporters and Trump supporters.  

Btw, a right winger, Bernie Goldberg, wrote the original book on so-called Limosine Liberals.

"Limousine liberals" - Love it.  President Lyndon B. Johnson&apos;s name for his critics.

Eric Foner&apos;s comments were enlightening. It is true Bernie Sanders has criticized President Obama, but not in the demeaning way Republicans have. Bernie Sanders has criticized him as an equal; one has the sense that he would criticize a white president the same way. One comment that he has made repeatedly, but which does not receive much attention, is that his father was not born in this country, yet no one has asked him for his birth certificate. Unlike with President Obama, the reaction to his father&apos;s foreign birth is a collective yawn. Bernie attributes that difference solely to his skin color. To me that reveals a sensitivity and empathy that is just not acknowledged, and that is not seen in Hillary Clinton. Maybe African-Americans believe that a Hillary Clinton presidency will really be a Bill Clinton presidency and they feel safer with a known quantity.

I&apos;d rather read this piece than listen to it.

It wouldn&apos;t be any better in print. ;-)

The Clintons  have done great more harm to the African American community, in addition to the crime bill, welfare reform bill and the deregulation of the financial sector add to that Hillary has received large donations from the for profit prison industry, guess who is in the prison system in large numbers

Everyone was hurt by the financial meltdown.  Derivatives were a huge motivator and the completely unregulated naked CDSs were ~ 85% of outstanding 6 Trillion in derivatives when the S..t hit the fan.  Hillary&apos;s friend Brooksley Born tried to get derivatives in hand but Summers and Rubin colluded with Sen Phil Gramm to stop her from even studying the issue.  Crime bill was awful and especially because law enforcement and elected officials chose for racist reasons to emphasize aftican american crime.   Again, there are juvenile criminals - malignant narcissists, sociopaths - who really are super predators.  They just are white, asian, latin as well as african american.

Best to not confuse Hillary with Bill.  Two different people.

Everyone was hurt by deregulation of the financial industry.  Keep in mind that Hillary&apos;s friend Brooksley Born at the CFTC tried to get a grip on derivatives - the weapons of financial mass destruction.  Prison reform - misapplied has been hard on African American because it has been ravial prejudice driven thanks to Bush43.   Important to not confuse Bill with Hillary and vice versa.

I, too, wonder how the African-American vote ended up in Hillary Clinton&apos;s corner.  Americans often vote against their own interests.

You know who votes in the largest percentage of any demographic group? AA women. They love Hillary. I already linked to an article by Michael Eric Dyson on this thread. Maya Angelou was a fierce supporter of Hillary&apos;s, even over Barack Obama. People not steeped in AA history are flummoxed by why a plurality of AAs vote for Hillary, but I can assure you they THE most sophisticated voters out there. Always have been. The people who write for The Nation need to get up to speed.

Yea, but the masses of them are also steeped in religious fundamentalism and they live with a fantasy of seeing Clinton and the first Black-identity President working together every day.

Sophisticated voters?  I seriously doubt that AA voters are any more or less sophisticated than whites or any other "group".  American voters, for the most part, are not very sophisticated.  They get the bulk of their information from TV, Facebook, and Twitter.  There is no greater proof of this than the rise of Donald Trump... and the contunued (though diminishing) lead of Hillary Clinton.  Hillary&apos;s record is out there - the real stuff (Not Benghazi Stupid - It&apos;s Libya).  But I gather really sophisticated readers (voters) know about all this already.  So tell me again, why you suggest that African American women are the most sophisticated.  They "know" the Clinton history is all bunk... just part of the vast right-wing conspiracy, right?  It&apos;s just us Nation readers and Bernie supporters who are too dumb to see the light?

I doubt your assurances. I don&apos;t care what issue you may be talking about, Identity Politics is the opposite of "sophisticated voting patterns".

African-Americans have had to live in big cities and small towns that had lots of machine politics.  They live with it.  Lots of Black-identity support for Clinton might be founded upon an unspoken, assumed spirit of "quid pro quo."

And a side note: I can&apos;t help but notice who&apos;s political ad is at the top of this page of the Nation....

People vote based on their "values" as they perceive them. They don&apos;t see themselves a voting against their interests. Hence, many people we&apos;d never imagine, line up w. Trump. They seem him as representing their self perceptions. There is a true disconnect between the "ideas" people hold dear and how those ideas translate into daily life. As we&apos;ve seen people are willing to suffer for their self image.

Fear and anger are controlled by the reptilian brain, and who better to reach into that part of the medulla than another reptile.

“AN INDISPENSABLE VOICE IN OUR POLITICAL DIALOGUE.”


— ELIZABETH WARREN


Stay connected with everything Nation by signing up for our free daily newsletter. 

Copyright (c) 2016 The Nation Company LLC

