Republican chief: Trump trying very hard to be presidential




         WASHINGTON        (AP) -- Donald Trump has been trying hard lately to act more presidential and needs to keep meeting individually with Republican leaders to win over the party&apos;s trust, the GOP chairman said Friday.

Reince Priebus made that assessment in a brief interview with The Associated Press, a day after his party&apos;s presumptive presidential nominee met with House Speaker Paul Ryan to discuss their frosty relationship.

"I think he&apos;s figuring out that being presidential is going to be very important moving in the fall election," Priebus said of Trump, who seems all but certain to formally become the GOP nominee at the party&apos;s July national convention in Cleveland.

Priebus also expressed uncertainly about what Trump must do to broaden his appeal among voters, saying people have been "completely wrong about Donald Trump and the playbook." Trump has repeatedly angered women, Hispanics and others with off-the-cuff comments that many thought could have proved politically fatal to most candidates.

"He&apos;s been trying very hard to be presidential and gracious and I think he&apos;s actually done a nice job of that lately," Priebus said. "And I expect him to continue working at it and getting the job done."

To win over Republicans who continue to resist his candidacy, Priebus said Trump should continue visiting party leaders. Trump also met Thursday with other House GOP leaders and with top Senate Republicans.

"Obviously he&apos;s a salesman. So he&apos;s naturally talented, and I think the more he does that individually here with leaders of our party, the better off I think he&apos;s going to be," Priebus said.

Sidestepping a fresh dispute, Priebus said it is up to Trump and the public whether the billionaire should release his tax returns. Trump refused Friday to reveal even the tax rate he pays, saying he would not do so until the IRS finishes auditing his returns.

Priebus also said he didn&apos;t know what to make of a report in The Washington Post that Trump posed as his own spokesman more than two decades ago in phone conversations with reporters in which he provided details about the New York businessman&apos;s personal relationships.

The Post posted online a recording of one such phone call from 1991. On NBC&apos;s "Today" show Friday, Trump denied the voice was his.

"I don&apos;t know if it&apos;s true or not, so I don&apos;t know what to tell you," Priebus said.

© 2016 The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Learn more about our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

Copyright ©2007 ... 

