© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Fox Television Stations, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Fox Television Stations, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices

An alarming video of a woman being beaten on a city street while a crowd of people watches came to us by a Fresco News user. We immediately called police and tried to identify the victim and get answers about what happened.

Posted:May 12 2016 04:16PM EDT

Updated:May 13 2016 05:34PM EDT



PHILADELPHIA (WTXF) An alarming video of a woman being beaten on a city street while a crowd of people watches came to us by a Fresco News user. We immediately called police and tried to identify the victim and get answers about what happened.

It was a disturbing scene Thursday morning in 200 block of Ontario Street in the city's  Kensington neighborhood. The man who shot the video of a brutal beating on the sidewalk does not want his face shown but did talk to us.
  
"The guy was actually on top of the girl-- just beating on her," the witness told FOX 29.

The woman is on the ground and you can see the man repeatedly slapping and punching the victim.

"I did hear a commotion earlier. I didn't pay no mind and then I came out and the guy was on top of the girl," the witness explained.

The witness who shot the video says the beating went on for some time. He says maybe 20 to 30 minutes.

"Did anyone try to help the woman?," FOX 29 asked, "No one, just bystanders, smiling laughing. Just standing around like a normal day, like nothing was even happening," the witness said.

You can see from the video that no one tries to intervene or help the woman. People are on their cell phones and just watching her being beaten. We don't know if they were possibly afraid for their own safety. We do know someone on the block did call police.

"I didn't want to jump in and be a hero and just get hurt you know. I's bad out here," the man said.

When asked if he knew the girl, the witness told FOX 29 he did not.

According to police, they did find the victim who is being treated for her injuries.

As of Friday afternoon, police say they are still investigating. So far, no charges have been filed.

 

 

All content © Copyright 2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

