An American-born businessman wants to raise £1m to stage a bizarre recreation of the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Paul Salo, who now lives in Thailand, has said he wants to purchase a 'Boeing 747' and smash it into the side of an empty building in the countryside at 500mph.

He describes it as an 'important project' to prove conspiracy theories about the terror atrocities 'once and for all'.

Mr Salo is hoping to crowdfund the event and is selling 'front-row seats' to the outlandish spectacle in Thailand for $5000 each (£3,500).

 Read more: 
Ex-CIA spook faces extradition for kidnap of Egyptian cleric 

In a video promoting the 'reconstruction', he said: "If you doubt anything about 9/11 we want to blast this to smithereens or we want to prove you completely right.

 

Youtube/Paul Salo


Paul Salo wants to raise Â£1m to fund the outlandish reconstruction






"We're going to purchase a 747 or equivalent aircraft that's about to go out of service, we're going to fill it full of jet fuel, we're going to purchase a building that's about to be torn down in the countryside... and we're going to crash it at 500 miles per hour into that building.

"If there's just a smoking hole in the building and nothing happens, you pretty much know it was a hoax, right? Cos it's obvious, right?

"Sure, some people might be upset, but we deserve to find out what happened."

 

Getty Images


Almost 3,000 people died in the attacks on September 11, 2001




Mr Salo, who grew up in California, adds that he believes the reconstruction will discover there was "similar physics" which caused the twin towers to collapse.

 Read more: 
'Russian missile downed MH17 Malaysian Airlines jet' 

The terror attacks killed 2,996 people after two Boeing 767 planes hit the towers in New York on September 11, 2001.

 

Getty


Both towers of the World Trade Center collapsed after being hit by Boeing 767 planes




Internet conspiracy theorists have long claimed that the World Trade Centre towers would not have crumpled so quickly - and that it was an 'inside job'.

Theorists suggested that the towers would not have caved inwards, the same way as a controlled demotion.

 

Splash


Documentary maker Michael Moore fuelled conspiracy theories after detailing links between the US Government and the Bin Laden family




Michael Moore's documentary Fahrenheit 9/11 added suspicion after detailing links between former president George Bush's family, the U.S. Government and the Bin Laden family.

Cult film Loose Change, another 9/11 documentary, claimed that the attacks were planned by U.S. government insiders.

The device - a mobile phone with wires attached to a gas pipe - was accidentally left by a private company following a training exercise

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev went on the run and was found hiding in a boat after planting two home-made bombs with his older brother near the finishing line

