 A self-proclaimed cannibal has been jailed for biting off a stranger's ear in a random attack and boasting: “It was chewy, yum yum”. 

 Garth Anderton had an obsession with cannibalism, vampires and serial killers and after biting off his victim's ear he put it in his pocket and later told police he was saving it to eat later. 

The 24-year-old was living rough and attacked innocent victim Euan Turner as he walked home from a New Year's Eve party with his brother and their partners.

He claimed Mr Turner had been laughing at him and felled him with a drop kick before climbing on top of him, battering him about the head and biting off the bottom third of his ear.

When police arrived he told them: "I bit his ear off and I ate it. I am a cannibal."

After officers found it in the zip pocket of his trackies he said: "It was chewy. I was saving it for later."

 Read more: Hairdresser who glassed unconscious man screams abuse as she is jailed 



He also gave police the false name of Richard Trenton, the first two names of a notorious American mass murderer Richard Chase, who was known as the Vampire of Sacramento.

Anderton told a psychiatrist he was fascinated with serial killers and vampirism and had even drunk his own blood in the past.

 He was branded as a danger to the public as he was jailed for six years at Exeter Crown Court . 

 

Serial killer Richard Chase, who was a source of fascination for Anderton




Anderton, 24, from Manchester, admitted causing grievous bodily harm with intent and three assaults.

He was jailed for six years with a five year extended licence by recorder Mr Andrew Maitland, who told him he appeared to be proud of what he had done.

He said: "One thing which causes me great concern is that when you were arrested you gave the name Richard Trenton. That was no coincidence. The psychiatrist established you have a preoccupation with serial killers.

"There seems to be a significant link between the way you behaved and giving this name just moments later. It gives an understanding of what was driving you.

 Read more: Man who pushed stranger in front of train sent to mental health hospital 



"You told the probation that you enjoyed every second of it. You said you taught Mr Turner a lesson and felt pretty proud. You said it was better than losing your virginity.

"You admitted you had said the ear was chewy and had said 'yum yum'. The probation officer concluded you pose an extremely high risk to the public.

"The psychiatrist referred to your fantasies of violence including in part cannibalism and repeated threats to hurt others. You are also pre-occupied with serial killers and in the past have self harmed and drunk your own blood.

"I have no hesitation in concluding you pose a serious risk to the public."



Kamlesh Ramji was shoved in front of a train in the 'horrendous' attack at a London underground station

Richard Philip McCann told officers that after restraining his victim he could not recall what had happened next and that it was an “absolute blur”

