
	14
      

By

Amie Gordon For Mailonline



Published:
  14:43 EST, 16 May 2016

 | 
Updated:
  16:48 EST, 16 May 2016



















          var twitterVia = 'MailOnline';
          DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', {
                    'id': '3593256',
                    'title': 'The Rich Kids of North Korea! Secretive state has \'one-percenters\'',
                    'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3593256/The-Rich-Kids-North-Korea-Secretive-state-one-percenters-love-paying-nearly-typical-month-s-wage-iced-coffee-downtown-Pyonghattan.html',
                    'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/1Xg2jNf via @' + twitterVia,
                    'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline',
                    'isChannel': false,
                    'hideEmail': true,
                    'placement': 'top',
                    'anchor': 'tl'});
          });
      



14
shares

 
          29
View  comments


        DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DMS.Article.init('top');
        });
    



          29

View  comments

We've seen the Rich Kids of London, Russia and China - and now the rich kids of North Korea are joining the action.  

Young people in North Korea appear to be joining their counterparts around the world  - unapologetically rich teenagers who regularly flaunt their lavish purchases and brazenly boast about their wealth.

As reported by the Washington Post, North Korea now has its very own percent - and they can be found in 'Pyonghattan,' the 'parallel ­universe' frequented by the rich kids of the Democratic People's Republic.

In this up-and-coming cosmopolitan world, North Korea's 'one-percenters' enjoy wearing clothes from globally-recognised high street brands including Zara, H&M, Nike and Adidas.

'Pyonghattan': A View of the Ryugyong Hotel  among towering apartments and other high rises in Pyongyang, North Korea

Indeed the young people in the country treat a workout like a fashion parade, taking the opportunity to flaunt their figures in their workout gear - because revealing clothes and hair-dye are still not allowed.

Speaking to the Washington Post, 24-year-old Lee Seo-hyeon said: 'We're supposed to dress conservatively in North Korea, so people like going to the gym so they can show off their bodies, show some skin.' 

Despite the official salary remaining less than £6.95 ($10) a month in North Korea, having some sort of disposable income has also become more commonplace. 

At the leisure complex in the middle of Pyongyang, visitors can frequent an upmarket restaurant and a coffee shop - where drinks are priced between $4 and $8.

Also on the rise in the country is eyelid surgery - which has become commonplace across Asia in recent years. But it is now coming to North Korea. 

Just four years ago, South Korea overtook Brazil as the plastic surgery of the world, with the highest number of surgeries performed per capita - and it has crossed over the border.

In South Korea, double eyelid surgery, which creates the Caucasian crease many Asian women don't naturally have, has become as common as going to the dentist. 

Eyelid surgery involves cutting the outer end of the eyes to make them wider and rounder, something plastic surgeons say boosts confidence. 

Korean women make pizzas at upscale italian pizza restaurant on Mirae Scientists Street in Pyongyang, North Korea



Lee Seo-hyeon and her brother Lee ­Hyeon-seung, now 30, were part of a privileged set of some three million North Koreans - out of a population of 25 million - who own mobile phones. 

Growing up, her brother enjoyed listening to Britney Spears and the Backstreet Boys, while their father, a high-ranking North Korean official based in China, earned foreign currency for the regime. 



'If your clothes are too radical or extreme, or they're not in line with North Korean style, the ­police might take your name and then your name will be broadcast on the radio,' Lee Seo-hyeon said. The siblings defected, toget­her with their mother and ­father, to South Korea in 2014, and now live in America. 

Andray Abrahamian is British, and helps deliver financial training to North Koreans.

He said of Pyonghattan: 'When you're in there it feels like you could be anywhere in the world. It's definitely for people who have disposable income.'



A young lady wearing a modern, brightly colored outfit and red clutch purse waits next to other women in traditional Korean dresses in Pyongyang

All of it amounts to a rapidly changing economy in a closed off society which is largely poor. 

The Pyongyang skyline is also rising - and not just with the trophy structures that represent the North Korean state. Despite its political and economic isolation, the capital is in the midst of a building boom. 



The influx of cash comes from North Korea's version of public-private partnership.

Local investors known as 'donju', or 'masters of money', have earned wealth in North Korea's growing market economy. 



The money they have made now flows through society - from the sushi bars to the barbecue restaurant.  


                                	Share what you think
                                

The comments below have not been moderated.


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.

Copy link to paste in your message

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

