Sign in using your wsbtv profile

Need a profile? Register now.

By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

We have sent a confirmation email to {* data_emailAddress *}. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.

We look forward to seeing you on [website] frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.

Click here to return to the page you were visiting.

We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.

Sorry we could not verify that email address. Enter your email below and we'll send you another email.

Click submit to receive another verification email

Check your email for a verification link


by: Brett Rosner
       Updated: May 16, 2016 - 6:13 PM


Travelers faced a rough Monday morning at Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport as security wait times climbed to over an hour.

People took to social media to post photos of the line snaking through the main security area and into baggage claim.

Channel 2’s Steve Gehlbach reported lines were over an hour long. Some travelers tweeted saying the lines were longer.

The south security checkpoint has been closed for a redesign to speed up the screening process.

Trending stories:


The airport recommends travelers arrive two to three hours early if flying, especially on high-traffic days like Monday.

"Oh my God. I don't know if I'm going to make it because I have exactly one hour before my flight," said one traveler.

With long lines at security checkpoints around the country, Homeland Security is trying to encourage fliers to sign up for TSA PreCheck.

Channel 2 Action News learned that an average of more than 9,000 people a day were paying $85 to sign up for the expedited screening last week, which is more than double the number this time last year.

“I think the secret is getting out,” U.S. Travel Association spokesperson Johnathan Grella said.

More than 26 million fliers are now participating in PreCheck.

PreCheck is valid for five years and you can sign up online. 

Lines at airport 1 hr+ main and 45 north. South checkpoint closed another week pic.twitter.com/4DboXlSYNA

Delta and airport officials passed out snacks and water to those waiting in the lines Monday morning.

Gehlbach said the wait times dropped dramatically around 9:30 a.m.

The south security checkpoint is expected to reopen on May 24.

 

Close to the back of line for main checkpoint @ATLairport on South/Delta side. One hour+ wait pic.twitter.com/CJG6p04lsP

© 2016 Cox Media Group.

By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices.

This station is part of Cox Media Group Television.

Learn about careers at Cox Media Group.



