NASA is planning to plough up to $500,000 dollars into a scheme to develop a hibernation chamber which will put humans to sleep for up to 14 days.

The space agency is funding the creation of a pioneering "cryosleep" system as part of its Innovative Advanced Concepts Program, which explores ambitious and forward-thinking projects.

The idea of putting astronauts into a state of suspended animation is a mainstay of sci-fi, with Ripley slumbering through a long journey in Alien and Lister snoozing his way into deep space in the comedy Red Dwarf .

Now NASA is working with an American firm called Space Works to turn fiction into reality.

"The idea of suspended animation for interstellar human spaceflight has often been posited as a promising far-term solution for long-duration spaceflight," said Dr John Bradford, CEO of the firm.

The cryosleep system works by chilling humans and artificially inducing a state of hypothermia so astronauts can hibernate for up to two weeks.

A similar technique is already used to cool the body of someone who has suffered a cardiac arrest in a bid to avoid brain damage.







Read more : 
This grainy image could shed light on the creation of life, the universe... and everything

This would allow just one space man or woman to maintain the ship, meaning the spacecraft could be much smaller and travel more efficiently through space.

SpaceWorks hopes its hibernation chamber will be used during voyages to Mars.

"Medical progress is quickly advancing our ability to induce deep sleep states with significantly reduced metabolic rates for humans over extended periods of time," it wrote. 




Sweet dreams: This is what Space Works thinks a Mars spaceship would look like




"NASA should leverage these advancements for spaceflight as they can potentially eliminate a number of very challenging technical hurdles and ultimately enable feasible and sustainable missions to Mars."

NASA is so serious about mastering the technology that it has put the research scheme through to Phase II of its development program and is prepared to fork out up to $500,000 to fund it.







 











Video loading













Watch next







Watch this video again

Watch Next








Click to play



The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started










“Phase II decisions are always challenging, but we were especially challenged this year with so many successful Phase I studies applying to move forward with their cutting-edge technologies,” said Jason Derleth.

"I'm thrilled to welcome these innovations and their innovators back to the program. Hopefully, they will all go on to do what NIAC does best - change the possible.”

Other projects pushed forward into Phase II include an advanced engine which uses directed energy to power a spaceship through the void at high speeds. 

 

 

Brit astronaut shares images of damage as European Space Agency warns impact could 'shatter a spaceship'

