by Adelle Nazarian16 May 20160

LastÂ week it was reported that “anonymous sourcesÂ at Facebook’s news team haveÂ confirmed to Gizmodo that, in addition to suppressing conservative news sources, the companyÂ suppresses stories about itself while artificially promoting stories about the Black Lives Matter movement.”

In spite ofÂ this, Zuckerberg denies any wrongdoing, stating “we have found no evidence that this report is true.” He is instead planning to hold a session Wednesday where he will essentially “pat conservatives on the head” withÂ a photo-op that is a direct testament to the fact that nothing has changed. It is also quite telling that he has reached out to Beck,Â who is struggling to remain relevant in theÂ conservative media sphere.

Beck announced the meeting in a Facebook post on his page early Sunday morning. BeckÂ and Perino will be joined by Arthur Brooks of the American Enterprise Institute, CNN’s S.E. Cupp, and Mitt Romney’s former digital director, Zac Moffatt.



It is also important to point out that nearly every “leading conservative” listed above who has accepted and confirmed their attendance on Wednesday is part of the anti-Trump or “Never Trump” movement. The move to invite from this school of “conservatives” flies in the face of Zuckerberg’s claim of creating a diverse group for the discussion.

One exception is Moffatt, who has stated his willingness to work with Trump. “Of course we would work for the RNC under Trump,” Moffatt said.

Additionally, Facebook’s Trending News chief, Tom Stocky, is a maximum political donor to Hillary Clinton. Breitbart News has also pointed out that of all the donations from Facebook employees,Â Clinton has received the most.

Beck hasÂ vehemently opposed Trump, going so far as calling him Hitler, butÂ announced last week that “Donald Trump is going to be the next president.”

Beck, as many may recall, took the liberty of mocking Republican presidential frontrunner and billionaire Donald Trump last month in a video where he smeared a bowl of crushed-up Cheetos crumbs all over his face. He did this after delivering aÂ “farewell address”Â to hisÂ 40 laid-off employees from his replica Oval Office.



On Sunday, Beck reacted vehementlyÂ to the Drudge Report’s observation that Zuckerberg invited anti-Trump “conservatives” to his photo-op and that Beck is to “grovel at Zuckerberg’s feet” on Wednesday.



With Beck’s The Blaze websiteÂ imploding, the photo-op meeting with Zuckerberg could not have come at a more opportune time. It could easily be seen as a gift to Beck who isÂ desperate to garner viewership and to increase his relevancy at a time when his stature is decreasing.

In January,Â Breitbart News leapt to the #12 spot in the world on Facebook, eclipsing other major news outlets such asÂ CNN, the Washington Post, Yahoo!, and ABC News. This is despite Facebook’s attempts to game theÂ system against Breitbart.

On Friday, Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon and Editor-in-Chief Alexander Marlow penned an op-ed outing Zuckerberg’s “condescension,” stating that the media company would not be participating in a “pat on the head” photo-op, but that Breitbart’s tens-of-millions of readers have expressed their interest in the following:

Follow Adelle Nazarian on TwitterÂ @AdelleNazÂ 

Big Journalism, Breitbart California, Tech, American Enterprise Institute, anti-Trump conservatives, CNN, conservatie media, Dana Perino, facebook, Glenn Beck, Mark Zuckerberg, Never Trump, SE Cupp, Zac Moffatt

Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page.

Send A Tip

Send A Tip

Copyright © 2016 Breitbart

SUBSCRIBE TO THE BREITBART NEWSLETTERSwitch to Full Site

Copyright © 2016 Breitbart







