
	451
      

By

Ashley Collman For Dailymail.com


and 
Jessica Chia For Dailymail.com


and 
Associated Press



Published:
  10:18 EST, 16 May 2016

 | 
Updated:
  17:15 EST, 16 May 2016



















          var twitterVia = 'MailOnline';
          DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', {
                    'id': '3593079',
                    'title': '4,000 passengers have missed flights at O\'Hare this year',
                    'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3593079/Four-thousand-passengers-missed-flights-hours-long-security-lines-Chicago-O-Hare-airport-year-TSA-understaffed-federal-budget-cuts.html',
                    'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/1OvVsII via @' + twitterVia,
                    'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline',
                    'isChannel': false,
                    'hideEmail': true,
                    'placement': 'top',
                    'anchor': 'tl'});
          });
      



451
shares

 
         374
View  comments


        DM.later('bundle', function(){
            DMS.Article.init('top');
        });
    



         374

View  comments

More than 400 passengers missed their flights on one night thanks to TSA security lines of up to three hours on Sunday at Chicago O'Hare International Airport, as the growing crisis at the agency causes travel chaos across the nation.

Dozens of the passengers were forced to sleep on cots at the nation's third-busiest airport Sunday night, because extremely long security lines kept them from making their flights.

And the lines didn't improve Monday morning, as the lines wound back and forth through the hallways during the early morning rush when passengers were told to expect waits of as long as three hours for international flights. 

Even in the afternoon, wait times at the nation's busiest hours were more than 30 minutes long. 

The TSA last week warned travelers to expect delays across the nation after they cut their staff numbers and the number of travelers increases.

At O'Hare, the nation's third-busiest airport, some 4,000 passengers have missed flights since February due to an understaffed TSA and record flight sales, according to American Airlines.

The TSA has pledged to add 800 new security screeners by June, but the union that represents these workers says 6,000 new hires need to be made to speed up the screening process. 



Scroll down for video  

 Passengers flying out of Chicago O'Hare Airport are being asked to show up at the airport two hours before domestic flights or three hours before international flights due to extremely long security lines. Above, passengers in line on Monday

Passengers at O'Hare International Airport wait in line to be screened at a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) checkpoint on May 16, 2016 in Chicago, Illinois

Waiting times at the checkpoints today have been reported to be as long 2 hours. The long lines have been blamed for flight delays and a large number of passengers missing flights completely

Dozens of passengers spent the night in the airport Sunday night after missing their flights due to the long security lines 

The long lines are due to the TSA which has become understaffed from federal budget cuts 

The reason for the shortage of TSA workers is due to federal budget cuts. 



In the meantime, transportation officials are urging passengers to arrive two hours before domestic flights and three hours before international flights to give them enough time to make it through the line. 

But like those camping out in the airport Sunday night, even following these rules sometimes fails. 

U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer, of New York, has also proposed increasing the amount of security dogs, which he says could cut wait times in half. 

Last week,  Homeland Security Director Jeh Johnson asked fliers to be patient as the government tackles the TSA employee shortage.  



'Our job is to keep the American people safe,' Johnson told reporters at a news conference. 'We're not going to compromise aviation security in the face of this.' 



The long lines continued on Monday at the nation's third-busiest airport. Above, passengers waiting in line at O'Hare on Monday 

Passengers distract themselves with their phones or talking as they wait in line for security checkpoints at Chicago O'Hare Airport on Monday 







The TSA cut its airport screener staff by 10 per cent in the past three years with the assumption the PreCheck program would speed up the process.

But the program requires an $85 to $100 fee every five years, and applicants need to pass an interview before they are allowed to go through faster lanes, where passengers don't have to take off their shoes or remove laptops and liquids from their bags.

Last week, Congress agreed to shift $34 million in TSA funding forward, allowing the agency to pay overtime to its existing staff. 

The money will also go towards hiring 768 screeners by June 15 to bring numbers up to the congressionally mandated ceiling of 42,525.

With fewer staff, stricter security procedures, and a record number of fliers, the perfect storm has been brewing for months.

Airlines have been warning customers to arrive at the airport two hours in advance, but with summer travel season approaching even that might not be enough.

Johnson said the TSA is working with airlines to enforce limits on carry-on bags and their size.

The TSA has pledged to add 800 more screeners by June, but the union that represents these workers says they need at least 6,000 new hires 

American Airlines reports that 4,000 passengers have missed flights at O'Hare since February 



Passengers often flout carry-on regulations to avoid paying the $25 checked bag fee most airlines charge, which only contributes to the problem.

John Mica, a Florida Republican who sits on the House Transportation Committee, suggested the TSA should tailor screeners' schedules to fit the volume of passenger traffic, rather than conforming to shift schedules.

Airlines and airports have hired extra workers to handle non-security tasks at checkpoints, like returning empty bins to the beginning of the line, as part of an effort to free up as many TSA employees. The help can't come quickly enough for travelers.

Last Friday, American Airlines held at least five flights at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport because of passengers stuck at security lines, according to airline spokesman Ross Feinstein. 

 



"The reason for the shortage of TSA workers is due ...


                                	Share what you think
                                

The comments below have not been moderated.


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    

By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.

Copy link to paste in your message

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

