 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

A super PAC run by the National Association of Realtors has spent over half a million dollars in support of Rep. Chris Van Hollen’s Senate campaign.

The money has gone toward television and Internet advertising as well as polling in the tight Democratic primary between Van Hollen and Rep. Donna F. Edwards. The group would not disclose how much money it intends to spend or where. However, so far the group has bought time in the Baltimore television market.

“Maryland needs and deserves proven, effective leadership,” its 30-second ad says. Van Hollen, the ad says, “has delivered that leadership” by encouraging affordable home ownership.

NAR spokesman Jon Boughtin said that the group “makes targeted investments in campaigns at the request of local and state associations who help identify candidates, like Congressman Chris Van Hollen, who have a strong track record of support for homeownership.”

 [Candidates on the attack in Maryland Senate debate] 

He would not say how much the group plans to spend on the race beyond the $554,850 already reported.

The super PAC is the first outside group to support Van Hollen in the Senate race. For months, Edwards has benefited from the backing of a super PAC run by the Democratic abortion rights women’s group Emily’s List. Early in the race, Van Hollen had pushed Edwards to sign a pledge barring such outside groups from the race, but she refused.

Van Hollen’s pledge would have required both candidates to donate to charity an amount equivalent to half what any outside group spent on the race. But he would not commit to such a pledge unilaterally.

“Chris Van Hollen is the only one in this race who has taken a stand against outside Super PAC money flooding into Maryland,” Van Hollen spokeswoman Bridgett Frey said in a statement. “He proposed an Elizabeth Warren-style anti-Super PAC pledge to keep them out of this election — the offer was quickly rejected because Congresswoman Edwards has a habit of saying one thing and doing another.”

Edwards spokesman Benjamin Gerdes countered that the investment was a sign of “Washington special interests” taking Van Hollen’s side in the race. 

Van Hollen has outraised Edwards in the race by a wide margin. At the end of last year, he had more than 10 times as much money in his campaign account. He has advertised extensively in Baltimore; she has not aired any ads at all. But Women Vote, the Emily’s List super PAC, has committed at least $2.4 million to supporting Edwards with advertising on television and online.

The most recent polling in the Senate race gives Edwards a slight lead, while several other recent polls find the two candidates tied. Their first debate was last Friday; a second debate is scheduled for this Friday.

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

local

md-politics







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

