 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

politics



the-fix





 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

Can you believe we're still talking about the Trumps and the Cruzes — this ridiculous political soap opera involving wives, tweets, photos and spilled beans?

Kate Bolduan can't. The CNN anchor delivered a clear message to Donald Trump adviser Stephen Miller at the end of an on-air interview on Thursday: "Tell your boss to stop perpetuating this conversation, and you and I can talk about important things."

Bolduan's directive capped a maddening, five-minute exchange in which Miller said "of course" he endorses Trump's decision late Wednesday to retweet a photo illustration featuring side-by-side images of his own wife, Melania, and Ted Cruz's wife, Heidi.

"@Don_Vito_08: "A picture is worth a thousand words" @realDonaldTrump #LyingTed #NeverCruz @MELANIATRUMP pic.twitter.com/5bvVEwMVF8"

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 24, 2016



Cruz responded calmly at first ...

Donald, real men don't attack women. Your wife is lovely, and Heidi is the love of my life. https://t.co/pprXhIMzUT

— Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) March 24, 2016



... then more angrily later on Thursday.

More Cruz: "Donald, you’re a sniveling coward, leave Heidi the hell alone."

— daveweigel (@daveweigel) March 24, 2016



"Sniveling coward." Ouch. This was the latest volley in a feud that began early in the week, as a pro-Cruz super PAC called Make America Awesome ran a social media campaign in Mormon-dense Utah (which caucused on Tuesday) featuring a racy photo of Melania Trump from a 2000 GQ photo shoot.

Anti-Trump group is running Facebook ads to drive up Mormon turnout in Utah and Arizona. https://t.co/v6ZZPKPMPp pic.twitter.com/Gps5KPbb2T

— McKay Coppins (@mckaycoppins) March 21, 2016



Despite the disclaimer at the bottom of the ad — "not authorized by any candidate" — Trump blamed Cruz and dragged his wife into the fray with a cryptic threat.

Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G.Q. shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016



Pic of your wife not from us. Donald, if you try to attack Heidi, you're more of a coward than I thought. #classless https://t.co/0QpKSnjgnE

— Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) March 23, 2016



As Bolduan said in her interview with Miller on Thursday, "this all could have ended yesterday." Instead, Trump escalated the situation by sharing the photo illustration of both candidates' wives with his 7.2 million followers.

BOLDUAN: Explain the retweet. Explain this coming from Donald Trump.

MILLER: I think the retweet speaks for itself. There was a vicious, mean-spirited ...

BOLDUAN: What does it speak to?

MILLER: ... uncalled-for attack on Mr. Trump's wife. And it was a personal attack about her image and appearance. And so he responded as any normal person would. So I don't really understand what the concern is.

Later, Bolduan tried to explain "what the concern is."

BOLDUAN: As I look at this retweet, as a woman, it's demeaning to not only Ted Cruz's wife; it's demeaning to Melania Trump because she's got a lot more going for her than just her looks, and you don't see that in this retweet.

MILLER: Well, I would not presume to speak as to what Mrs. Trump or Mr. Trump or anyone else in the family views the tweet. But I think the retweet speaks for itself. And I think that you and I are probably just going to have to agree to disagree on this.

There's no convincing Trump, his advisers or his diehard supporters that he's wrong. That's clear by now.

But the truly frustrating thing for Bolduan and the rest of the media is that, to some degree, they're at the mercy of Trump when it comes to the news agenda. So long as the two leading candidates for the Republican presidential nomination carry on this spouse spat, it will remain a storyline that is impossible to ignore.

The Freddie Gray case 

 Sign up for email updates on the trials.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

  Campaign 2016     Email Updates 

Get the best analysis of the presidential race.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

Get Zika news by email

 We will update you when news breaks about the virus.

You’ve signed up for email updates on this story.

Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics



the-fix





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Please enter a valid email address

Please indicate agreement.

