 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

Former House speaker Newt Gingrich will not face a Federal Election Commission investigation into allegations that he broke federal law by using his 2012 presidential campaign to promote books that he and his wife wrote, documents released Friday show.

As part of an agreement with the FEC finalized Feb. 23, the veteran Republican party leader will shut down his 2012 committee, Newt 2012, in the next few months. The campaign still owes nearly $4 million to more than 100 vendors, who are now unlikely to see full payment.

The FEC’s top attorney recommended in 2013 that the agency investigate Gingrich, but the case languished and the six-member commission eventually deadlocked along partisan lines in June, with the three Republican commissioners voting against an inquiry.

The general counsel’s initial review found evidence of seven violations of campaign finance laws, the FEC documents show. Among the findings: Gingrich’s campaign staff and the employees of his production company at times swapped duties as the then-candidate was holding concurrent campaign rallies and book-signing events.

Gingrich’s campaign was sanctioned for just one violation: failing to properly report a $47,005 debt that the campaign owed him personally for the rental of a mailing list.

 [Gingrich’s book-selling efforts test campaign laws] 

Gingrich did not return a call for comment. His former campaign manager, Vince Haley, said in a statement that the settlement “represents the conclusion of a thorough examination by the FEC of NEWT 2012’s compliance with federal campaign reporting requirements.”

“At the conclusion of this examination the FEC asked only that NEWT 2012 reword a single entry in its campaign report with respect to an expenditure that had been previously disclosed by the campaign from its first filing, which NEWT 2012 has agreed to do,” Haley added.

As part of the negotiated settlement, the campaign also agreed to close down within 90 days. It has to file a debt-settlement plan, but it appears unlikely that the committee — which has raised no money so far this cycle — will be able to pay all of its bills.

Among the biggest debts it owes is $977,000 to the air charter company Moby Dick Airways and $287,000 to the law firm McKenna, Long and Aldridge, which is now part of Dentons.

The case dates to December 2011, when The Washington Post reported that Gingrich was holding book-selling events in conjunction with his campaign stops.

The watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington filed a complaint with the FEC alleging that Gingrich’s production company was making illegal in-kind corporate contributions to his campaign.

 [Gingrich racks up more debt as his campaign disintegrates] 

The FEC’s general counsel found reason to believe the law had been broken, noting that schedules and reimbursement forms provided by Gingrich’s company indicated that its employees were assisting the campaign on the road.

Gingrich’s attorneys maintained that all business and campaign costs were segregated.

The general counsel also found evidence that the campaign’s resources benefited Gingrich personally, noting that his campaign website included more than 80 links to the Gingrich Productions website, along with blog entries promoting book signings and movie screenings. Many of the links went to pages urging supporters to buy books written by Newt and Callista Gingrich.

Noah Bookbinder, CREW’s executive director, called the FEC’s decision to close the case “distressing.”

“This is certainly not consistent with a functioning enforcement body,” he said.

politics









Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

