A rumour has been circulating online that the 2016 Eurovision entrant for Belarus, IVAN (real name Alexander Ivanov) wants to perform his song 'Help you Fly' in the NUDE with a couple of live wolves by his side, onstage at Stockholm this year.

 



Belarus entrant IVAN poses with wolves (Source: LifeNews.ru) 

The rumour was initially dismissed by many as silly gossip. Eurovision's strict rules are pretty clear about no live animals being allowed onstage - and nudity would just be downright scandalous!

 

Now though, video footage has emerged via Russian website LifeNews.ru that show the young star making good on this suggestion (at least at the rehearsal phase) as he is shown singing his track 'Help You Fly' onstage to a pair of actual live wolves, wearing nothing but his birthday suit!  

 

Check it out below. Be warned though  - it's NSFW!



 

Enjoy that footage while you can though - because it's highly unlikely IVAN will be allowed to get away with it onstage at the main event - although his team remain optimistic!

 

"We haven’t received any answer from the organisers yet," the singer’s producer Viktor Drobish told LifeNews.ru. "But yes, Sasha will be naked on stage and there will be wolves."



Alexandr Ivanov with his wolves. (Source: Lifenews.ru) 

 

So what exactly is the significance of the animals?

 

"Every person identifies himself with a certain totemic creature," Drobrish explained. "Sometimes we suppress it in ourselves but sometimes we have to face it. We want everybody to feel the thin line between humans and nature."

 

21-year-old IVAN won his spot in Stockholm at the Belarusian national final this year and his song was written by Victor Drobysh, the Russian composer and producer, famous for penning lyrics to 'Party For Everybody', the catchy dance tune sung by the Russian grannies Buranovskiye Babushki in 2012.



The Buranovskiye Babushk perform 'Party for Everybody' at the 2012 Eurovision Song Contest 



Would you like to see Belarus's IVAN perform at Stockholm in the nuddy with wolves?

Poll

Thanks for voting*

* Please note percentages are rounded to one decimal place.







 

 

IVAN's official video submission was considerably more modest than what he allegedly has planned for onstage at Stockholm. Watch below.








SBS Secures an exclusive option to develop the Eurovision Song Contest concept in Asia
SBS is pleased to announce it has signed an exclusive option with the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), the owners of the Eurovision Song Contest, to establish an Asian version of the famous Contest. 



Behind the scenes with Dami Im for Australia's 2016 Eurovision Postcard
Go behind the scenes with Dami as she records her Postcard message for Eurovision 2016, giving the other nations glimpse at some of Australia's most adorable residents. 



Are you Australia's biggest Eurovision fan? You could be SBS's first Eurovision Insider!
Do you love Eurovision? Do you live and breathe social media?  



