U.S. deploys B-52 bombers to Middle East for the first time in 25 years

WESLEY PRUDEN: Bill Clinton spells trouble for Hillary Clinton

Laura Bush hints she would rather vote for Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump

Bill Maher: GOP is a 'filthy pee-stained house full of dead cats'

Trump campaign: Ted Cruz using 'Gestapo tactics' to sway delegates

Hillary Clinton: 'Unborn person' has no constitutional rights

Police: Body parts found in Seattle homeowner's recycle bin

Bernie Sanders defends remarks about Israel, asks 'who is' the former Israeli ambassador

Obama relents on Fast & Furious executive privilege, turns records over to Congress

Bernie Sanders: 'I have my doubts' about what kind of president Hillary Clinton would be

Here comes trouble, and it looks like Bubba

Memo to Donald Trump: Forget the zingers and insults, it’s time to get back to winning 

The real secret of Bernie Sanders’ success

A bare-knuckle brawl of a campaign

See no evil: Obama refuses to utter ‘radical Islamic terrorism’ amid 800% terror spike

The U.S. Air Force has deployed B-52 long-ranger bombers to the Middle East, for the first time since the Gulf War ended, to conduct strikes against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, officials said Saturday. 

An unknown number of B-52s will be based at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, the U.S. Air Force Central Command said in a statement. 

“The B-52s will provide the coalition continued precision and deliver desired airpower effects,” Lt. Gen. Charles Q. Brown Jr., commander, U.S. Air Forces Central Command and Combined Forces Air Component said, Fox News reported. 

The announcement comes a day after Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. would “turn up the pressure further” against the Islamic State during a surprise visit to Baghdad Friday to meet with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi. 

 

Copyright © 2016 The Washington Times, LLC.  Click here for reprint permission.

Kellan Howell is a continuous news writer for The Washington Times, covering defense and national security. Originally from Williamsburg, Virginia, Kellan graduated from James Madison University where she received bachelor’s degrees in media arts and design and international affairs with a concentration in western European politics.

During her time at JMU, she interned for British technology and business news website ...
									
									
									
								

Terms of Use / Privacy Policy

