 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

A House committee on Wednesday approved legislation that would prevent government officials from reading emails without a warrant, a win for privacy advocates that comes as Congress hotly debates when authorities should be able to spy on private communications.

Advocates of the bill said it is needed to ensure the law is keeping up with technology when it comes to privacy protections.

Currently, the government needs a court order to obtain email less than 180 days old, but can read these messages with only a subpoena if they’re more than 180 days old. But the law that set that standard was written before Gmail, Yahoo and other web-based email services became widely used and offered users a way to store their email on “the cloud,” instead of on their personal computer’s hard drive. Under the bill approved by the House Judiciary Committee on 28 to 0 vote, authorities would need a warrant to read any email.

“These updates to the law protect Americans’ constitutional rights and provide law enforcement with the tools they need to protect public safety,” committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) said in a statement.

Law enforcement officials and civil liberties advocates have been fighting for years over the line between a citizen’s right to privacy and the government’s need to access private conversations for national security reasons, an issue that grows more complicated as communications technologies change rapidly.

Presently, lawmakers are grappling with legislation to get around encryption barriers, with some proposing a standard that would require companies to furnish the government with encrypted data upon a court order – a proposal that is proving controversial.

  [Justice Dept. says it still wants to force Apple to unlock iPhone in drug case]  

A resolution to the debate over when a warrant is needed to read emails will likely be among the easiest privacy issues for Congress to settle.

The lack of controversy surrounding the bill suggests it could have an easy passage through both chambers with Senate leaders on the issue praising the House committee’s approval of the bill.

“These critical updates to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act will bring that law into the 21st century,” Senate Judiciary Committee Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah), who are pushing similar legislation in the Senate, said in a statement.

But some members of the House committee were dismayed that the bill does not require the government to notify email users when their private communications have been read.

“In the digital world no amount of due diligence necessarily tells us that the government has accessed our electronic communications,” committee ranking member John Conyers (D-Mich.) said, arguing the government “should have the obligation” to clue people in when someone is reading over their shoulder.

And many lawmakers are upset that location stamping of email and other communications was not addressed in this legislation.

“The idea that government can follow the citizens around wherever they go in the whole U.S.? that’s kind of 1984!”  Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) said, referring to George Orwell’s famous novel. “Surveillance of government on the people, that’s what this committee has to fight against.”

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

