 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

 NEW YORK — Sen. Bernie Sanders would have forever regretted skipping the chance to speak at a Vatican conference Friday and, perhaps, to meet Pope Francis, he said in an interview Wednesday.

Sanders’s decision to leave New York just days before a crucial primary here against Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton — for a 15-minute speech and no guarantee of a direct audience with the pontiff — has prompted much speculation about the democratic socialist’s apparent infatuation with Francis as well as his commitment to the presidential campaign.

But even with the potential for dire political consequences — Sanders is vacating the New York campaign days before what has become a watershed contest here that he needs to win to sustain his argument that he can still capture the Democratic nomination — the senator from Vermont said he simply could not pass it by.

“I would be kicking myself forever if I did not seize the opportunity,” Sanders said in a phone interview Wednesday.

Along with its possible downside, the gamble also comes with a potentially enormous payoff: a photograph with the pope that would be seen around the world.

“It’s something I would be very proud to see happen,” Sanders said of an audience with the pontiff. “I believe that the pope has been an inspirational figure in raising public consciousness about the kind of income and wealth inequality we are seeing all over this world.”

The decision to head to the Vatican even came as a surprise to one of Sanders’s closest advisers, who admitted last week that he played no role in the planning. But for Sanders, there is no mystery in accepting a chance to meet the pope, whose pronouncements on economic justice and environmental conservation he has long admired.

Sanders said the trip is worthwhile whether he gets the audience or not. “It’s absolutely worth the trip to participate in a conference under a pope who has led the world in raising consciousness on the most important issues of social, economic and environmental justice.”

Sanders will be away from New York less than two full days — perhaps no longer than Clinton will spend on a fundraising jaunt to California that will stretch over Friday and Saturday. And the trip could make Sanders appear more presidential, particularly if he secures an audience with the pontiff.

Some politics and theology experts speculated that the trip looks to be more about Sanders’s credentials as the leader of a movement than his qualifications for the White House. Meeting Francis, the hugely popular pope whose advocacy of a more moral economic system has made him a worldwide folk hero, could confer on Sanders greater international stature and move him beyond the confines of the American political race.

“Even a photo op with the pope and a discussion and conversation about these issues puts Sanders on the level of a world leader and reinforces the image that he’s a world leader,” said Costas Panagopoulos, a Fordham University political science professor who currently is a visiting professor at Yale.

“He’s not making the trip to kiss the ring, but that’s effectively what he is going to do,” Panagopoulos said. “It’s a blessing that at the most basic level suggests that Sanders is qualified and competent to address these issues” on the world stage.

Chad C. Pecknold, a theology professor at Catholic University who specializes in U.S. politics, said that the trip may also lay some groundwork for a larger — even international — role for Sanders after an election that is looking to be increasingly difficult for him to win.

“Let’s say that he is realistic and that his path to the nomination is extremely slim,” Pecknold said. “Then he must say, ‘Well, what is my role after this campaign?’ It seems clear that he is in a position now to highlight his new profile.”

Tad Devine, Sanders’s chief strategist, declined to discuss any political implications of the trip during an interview Wednesday.

“It’s not going to be a political speech or event,” Devine said. “We’re not viewing this through a political lens.”

Campaign manager Jeff Weaver said the candidate’s trip is “beyond politics.” The subject of the conference is “the work of Bernie Sanders’s life,” Weaver said.

Mo Elleithee, director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service, said that he is not sure Sanders’s choice indicates anything about his future.

“I think he’s earned the right to be viewed as a serious presidential candidate,” Elleithee said. “We’re past the point where his campaign is a way to raise the profile of an issue.”

The trip is unusual by many measures. Devine was not consulted and initially seemed startled by Sanders’s sudden announcement last week that he would go.

In addition, the invitation set off a public spat among the organizers of the academic conference he will attend; one accused Sanders of improperly inviting himself, while another said that he had extended the invitation to Sanders himself.

There has also been much speculation about whether the visit will improperly draw Francis into U.S. politics. It wouldn’t be the first time; after declaring he would stay out of the U.S. presidential campaign, the pope offered some harsh words for Republican front-runner Donald Trump.

“This speaks volumes about the lack of coherence of this pope,” said Sandro Magister, a longtime Vatican reporter for the L’Espresso weekly magazine in Italy, “because you can’t logically say, ‘I’m not getting mixed up,’ and then at the same time disqualify a candidate while welcoming with full honors another one.”

U.S. political candidates do not often break off for foreign travel in the midst of a fierce primary — especially when trailing by double digits in a crucial contest.

“I think it’s a very odd decision that takes him off the campaign trail at the worst possible time,” said Tommy Vietor, a former national security spokesman for President Obama who has advised Clinton.

“Even with extensive planning, international trips are dicey for candidates — just ask Mitt Romney,” Vietor said, referring to the 2012 Republican nominee’s missteps during a poorly reviewed campaign trip to Britain and Israel.

Sanders is scheduled to address a small Vatican conference on income inequality, his signature issue in the American campaign. 

While prestigious for its role in informing papal statements about peace and justice issues, the organizing body is two bureaucratic steps removed from Francis. The pope would not have been involved in selecting the speakers, theologians and Vatican watchers said.

The trip was planned to take Sanders out of New York for as little time as possible. He is departing shortly after Thursday night’s Brooklyn debate against Clinton, and is scheduled to return by early Saturday afternoon, in time to hit the campaign trail later the same day.

In other words, he could spend less than 20 hours on the ground in Rome and at the Vatican. No other events have been announced beyond his 15-minute speech at the conference.

“It’s curious timing, but at the end of the day, does it hurt him? I don’t know,” said Elleithee, who was an aide to Clinton during her failed 2008 campaign. “The venue is one that’s going to get him a lot of attention, so I bet people in New York are going to hear about it.”

 Sanders’s Vatican trip is being bracketed by some large-scale rallies intended to make a statement about his drawing power in New York.

Probably the largest event of the New York campaign to date was scheduled for Wednesday night in Manhattan’s Washington Square Park. Sanders was to be joined there by an entourage of celebrities, including director Spike Lee, actresses Rosario Dawson and Shailene Woodley, actor Tim Robbins and singer-songwriter Graham Nash. The band Vampire Weekend was to play.

Sanders has large rallies planned for Sunday and Monday ahead of Tuesday’s primary.

 [Bernie Sanders proves a celebrity magnet in New York] 

Clinton, who represented New York for eight years as senator, is also campaigning almost daily in New York.

Sanders’s aides have argued that Clinton is probably spending more time out of state than Sanders, given fundraising trips to Florida, Virginia, California and elsewhere. Sanders, who raises the vast majority of his money online, generally has the luxury of spending more time than Clinton doing public campaign events.

 [Sanders rallies with striking Verizon workers, picks up another NYC union endorsement] 

Sanders, a secular Jew, refused to speculate about whether the trip to the Vatican might boost support among Catholic voters.

“Let’s be clear, I think Pope Francis is an extraordinarily beloved figure all over this world,” Sanders said. “The love that is being shown to him has gone far beyond the Catholic Church. He is enormously popular in the United States. . . . I think he has struck a nerve. I’m just enormously grateful for the role he has played.”

 Stefano Pitrelli in Rome contributed to this report. 

Stefano Pitrelli in Rome contributed to this report.



politics









Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

