 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.

Sign in to your account to save this article.

Senate Select Intelligence Committee Chair Richard Burr and ranking member Dianne Feinstein released a draft bill on Wednesday that would compel American companies to turn over data to the government under court order, staking out a controversial position in Congress’s ongoing fight over encrypted communications.

That debate accelerated in the aftermath of last year’s terror attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., and peaked during the last several weeks as the Federal Bureau of Investigations and Apple bickered in courts and committee hearings over whether the tech giant could be forced to unlock the contents of an iPhone for the government.

Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Burr’s (R-N.C.) draft, which starts by stating that “no person or entity is above the law,” requires tech and communications companies to comply with court orders demanding the release of user data, encrypted or otherwise, in a readable format. The government would not begin storing such data on a regular basis, and the proposal would compensate tech companies that are asked to unlock encrypted data that the government wants.

The government and Apple had been headed to a likely protracted and costly court showdown over the encrypted data on the iPhone used by a San Bernardino terrorist. The main conflict was averted after the FBI paid professional hackers to crack the four-digit PIN on that iPhone — though it’s unclear if the FBI will share its hacking technique with Apple. But the FBI still wants to force the tech giant to unlock the device because the amount of data it can currently access limited.

  [FBI paid professional hackers one-time fee to crack San Bernardino iPhone]  

Encryption has become an increasingly central issue in the national security debate, with lawmakers concerned that the coding built into many tech companies’ products jeopardizes law enforcement’s ability to learn crucial information. But tech companies and privacy advocates worry that their encryption features will start to be seen as worthless if the government can demand access to any of their products.

The bill from Feinstein and Burr seeks to strike a balance between those concerns — though not everyone agrees it is the right one.

“Today, terrorists and criminals are increasingly using encryption to foil law enforcement efforts, even in the face of a court order,” Feinstein said in a statement. “We need strong encryption to protect personal data, but we also need to know when terrorists are plotting to kill Americans.”

Burr added that he hoped the draft bill “will start a meaningful and inclusive debate on the role of encryption and its place within the rule of law.”

By any measure, that debate is already underway: privacy advocates who were long wary of Congress began to express open outrage late last week, when a draft of the Senate Intelligence Committee leaders’ initial legislation was leaked. Now that the draft has been released, they are no happier with what they see.

“This legislation would effectively prohibit Americans from protecting themselves as much as possible,” Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) said in a statement Wednesday.

Not only would the legislation leave people “vulnerable to stalkers, identity thieves, foreign hackers and criminals,” Wyden argued, it would also provide an incentive to would-be terrorists to use non-American encrypted products and apps to continue their conversations. That would put terrorists further out of the reach of American authorities, Wyden argued, and hurt U.S. companies in the process.

Burr’s and Feinstein’s bill isn’t the only encryption proposal out there: Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Texas) also have legislation to set up a commission to study the issue for a year and recommend the best policies.

  [Justice Department says it still wants to force Apple to unlock iPhone in drug case]  

Burr said in his statement Wednesday that he and Feinstein hope to engage everyone who is “willing to engage constructively on this critically important and challenging issue” as the debate continues.

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

powerpost



powerpost





Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

Play right from this page

 It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses! 

 Online crossword. 

 Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games! 

 Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve. 

