NEW YORK (CBSNewYork) — More than a hundred suspects have been arrested in the Bronx in what is believed to be the largest gang takedown in New York City history, according to authorities.

Charges are set to be announced Wednesday against 120 alleged members and associates of two rival street gangs.

Hundreds ofÂ law enforcement officers from the NYPD and federal agencies, some using helicopters and armored vehicles, were involved in the massive early morning raid.

Officials said the gangs, the Big Money Bosses and 2 Fly YGZ, terrorized the Easterchester Gardens and Edenwald housing developments, 1010 WINS’ Juliet Papa reported.

Authorities said the gang members committed “murder, attempted murder, robbery, attempted robbery, narcotics trafficking, bank fraud and the passing of counterfeit currency,” CBS2’s Andrea Grymes reported.

Sixty of the alleged gang members are being charged with violent crimes, including murder, WCBS 880’s Sophia Hall reported.

One of the murders includes the 2009 death of 92-year-old Sadie Mitchell, who was hit by a stray bullet that went through her home’s window on 224th Street near White Plains Road, authorities said.

The indictment also alleges “the defendants knowingly committed the narcotics trafficking offense within 1,000 feet of: (1) playgrounds… (2) public and private elementary, vocational and secondary schools.”

The arrests were welcome news to Bronx residents.

“It’s best for the neighborhood,” one woman told Grymes. “We want to have a nice, clean, non-violent neighborhood.”

Bronx Councilman Andy King called the takedown “a major hit” and said “that’s what we need.”

“Anytime you take down that number of people and you remove them from the community, yeah we’re looking for a little bit more peace in the neighborhood,” he said. “We’re expecting this summer to be that much more calmer.”

King also said the arrests send a message, 1010 WINS’ Glenn Schuck reported.

“Young men need to realize that if you want to be a part of the neighborhood, there’s better ways to invest in your communities without hurting your communities,” he said. “There are a lot of young people who are relieved right now that they don’t have to be stressed out by having to interact or be terrorized or threatened.”

An 18-year-old had been arrested in connection with the 2009 shooting death of Mitchell. During questioning, investigators said Jamal Blair admitted to firing a gun during a turf war in the neighborhood.

Listen Live

