 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

politics

courts_law







 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

Supreme Court justices on Wednesday seemed highly skeptical of the government’s case that led to former Virginia governor Robert F. McDonnell’s 2014 corruption conviction for actions he took on behalf of a businessman who provided his family with more than $175,000 in benefits.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. suggested that the law used to convict McDonnell might be unconstitutionally vague. Justice Stephen G. Breyer said he worried about prosecutors having too much power in deciding when politicians cross the line from political favors to criminal acts, even if it “will leave some corrupt behavior unprosecuted.”

Washington lawyer Noel Francisco, who represented McDonnell as the former governor sat next to his wife, Maureen, in the second row, said none of McDonnell’s favors for businessman Jonnie Willilams Sr. were the kinds of “official acts” that trigger laws forbidding bribery.

Deputy Solicitor General Michael Dreeben, representing the government, pushed back, saying McDonnell used his official position to help Williams in return for “loans and luxury” items and that overturning the governor’s conviction “would send a terrible message to citizens.”

 [As McDonnell awaits Supreme Court, another governor watches from prison]  

When Breyer said Dreeben was providing a “recipe” for giving too much power to prosecutors, Dreeben replied that McDonnell was urging a reading of the law that provides “a recipe for corruption.”

Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg voiced some support for the government’s position. Ginsburg told Francisco that under his reading of the law, a government official would be able to say, “You want a meeting, pay me a thousand dollars.”

Francisco replied that other laws would cover such a scenario. 

The only bad moment of the hour-long argument for Francisco, however, came when he referred to Ginsburg as “Justice O’Connor,” something that used to happen more regularly when Ginsburg and Justice Sandra Day O’Connor were the court’s only women. O’Connor retired in 2006.

“That hasn’t happened in quite some time,” Ginsburg said, laughing

 McDonnell’s position was that the acts that led a jury to convict him of corruption and a judge to sentence him to two years in prison are indistinguishable from the favors politicians regularly provide in exchange for gifts and campaign contributions.

“Officials routinely arrange meetings for donors, take their calls, politely listen to their ideas, and refer them to aides,” Francisco said in his brief to the court. “In criminalizing those everyday acts, the government has put every federal, state and local official nationwide in its prosecutorial crosshairs.”

Such perceptions of politics as usual have fueled voter anger in the 2016 presidential election and energized voters who believe an outsider is needed to combat campaign donors and special interests.

The government said McDonnell’s arguments go too far and take too cynical a view of the political system.

 [Jury convicts McDonnell of 11 counts of corruption]  

Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr.’s brief to the court said that McDonnell’s view that “any benefit that can be characterized as ‘ingratiation or access’ may be sold in a quid pro quo exchange for a campaign contribution — or, by necessary implication, for a personal payoff .”

“By that logic,” Verrilli said, “a member of Congress could condition the performance of routine constituent services on a $100 campaign contribution, and a governor seeking reelection could demand a $1,000 contribution — or a personal loan — as the price of any official meeting with a senior member of his administration.”

But the reference to “ingratiation or access” was to the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United v. FEC. Then court ruled then that such favors that follow campaign contributions are not corruption. The court has also said that laws governing the conduct of politicians must be limited essentially to bribery and kickbacks.

A jury and then a unanimous panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in Richmond said McDonnell’s conduct fit the bill.

The case involves the relationship of the McDonnells to Richmond businessman Jonnie R. Williams Sr.

The McDonnells were convicted in 2014, accused of intervening with state officials on Williams’s behalf in exchange for $177,000 in loans, vacations and luxury goods. The former governor was sentenced to two years in prison; Maureen McDonnell received a year and a day.

Both were allowed to remain free on bond with their appeals pending. Maureen McDonnell’s appeal has been put on hold at the 4th Circuit.

The Supreme Court indicated its interest in the case last fall by giving McDonnell, 61, a reprieve from reporting to prison while it considered whether to hear his appeal.

 [A list of gifts Williams gave the McDonnells]  

The McDonnells were convicted after a gripping trial in which the former governor’s financial woes and marital troubles were aired publicly. The couple separated shortly before their trial.

Jurors were shown example after example of the luxurious lifestyle the McDonnells were able to lead only because Williams picked up the tab. Among them: expensive vacations, a Rolex watch for him, $15,000 for their daughter’s wedding reception, use of a Ferrari and $120,000 in sweetheart loans.

Virginia’s laws at the time did not forbid such gifts. The legislature has made three attempts at ethics reform since McDonnell’s indictment. Once free to accept unlimited personal gifts from lobbyists or people seeking government contracts, public officials now cannot take presents worth more than $100 from a single giver per year. 

But federal prosecutors said that McDonnell’s role in promoting a dietary supplement Williams’s company was developing was part of a corrupt exchange of favors illegal under federal law.

McDonnell’s contributions, they said, came in the form of meetings arranged to connect Williams with state officials, a luncheon Williams was allowed to throw at the governor’s mansion to help launch the product and a guest list Williams was allowed to shape at mansion reception meant for health-care leaders.

Defense attorneys argued at trial that there was no evidence McDonnell even knew what Williams wanted. And what he did want — state-funded studies of the product, Anatabloc — he never got.

But Williams, who was granted immunity by prosecutors, testified that the governor always knew why he was being so generous with the McDonnell family.

Prosecutors built a strong circumstantial case.

In one instance, McDonnell directed a subordinate to meet with Williams the same night he returned from a free vacation at the businessman’s lake house. In another, six minutes after emailing Williams about a loan, McDonnell emailed an aide about studies Williams wanted researchers at a public university to conduct on his product.

But McDonnell’s lawyers told the court that “the common denominator of every bribery conviction is an official’s agreement to corrupt the government’s decisional process to achieve a specific governmental outcome.”

That was missing in his case, they said.

The case is McDonnell v. United States.

  



politics

courts_law













Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics

courts_law







Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

