 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

 The inside track on Washington politics. 

*Invalid email address

politics









 Success! Check your inbox for details.  You might also like: 

Please enter a valid email address







 See all newsletters 

Congressional Democrats set out on a mission Wednesday to tie Donald Trump to every possible Republican running in competitive down-ballot races, following the real estate mogul’s elevation to the GOP’s presumptive presidential nominee.

In memos, news releases and across social media, Democrats tried to take advantage of Trump’s unchallenged hold on the presidential nomination by linking Republican incumbents to his controversial statements and proposals on the campaign trail. Democrats believe Trump’s triumph will allow them to make electoral inroads that could flip the Senate to their control and provide major gains in the House. 

“The bottom line is, the battlefield is going to shift in our favor,” Kelly Ward, executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Wednesday. Her committee issued a memo to the Colorado news media highlighting Trump’s positions and how they will play in the highly competitive race involving Rep. Mike Coffman (R), who represents Denver’s eastern suburbs. The memo was headlined: “Coffman and Trump: Welcome to the Trump ticket.”

In New Hampshire, Gov. Maggie Hassan (D) is in a closely watched Senate contest with the GOP incumbent Sen. Kelly Ayotte. On Wednesday Hassan denounced “the Donald Trump-Kelly Ayotte Republican Ticket,” in an effort to link the incumbent to Trump’s views on defunding Planned Parenthood and blocking the consideration of Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland. That came as Ayotte, back home for the congressional recess this week, told local media that she would support but not formally endorse Trump.

Positions like those have boosted Democratic hopes. Republicans can either embrace Trump or distance themselves, but either prospect risks alienating some important bloc of voters.

Majority control of the Senate, which was considered a close call before primary voters starting going to the polls in February, is now getting more difficult by the week for Republicans. One analyst, Charlie Cook, now gives Democrats a 60 percent chance of reclaiming the majority.

Trump’s rise has Democratic strategists salivating at the prospect of expanding the Senate battleground from states that were already expected to be competitive in a place as inhospitable as Arkansas. In 2010 and 2014, well-funded Democratic incumbents could not even get 40 percent of the vote there.

Illustrating the perceived potency of a Trump nomination, Connor Eldridge, the Democratic challenger waging an uphill fight against Arkansas Sen. John Boozman, released a lengthy web video this week that included a variety of misogynistic comments by Trump alongside Boozman’s pledge to support the eventual GOP presidential nominee. The video has drawn more than 90,000 views and media coverage in Arkansas and nationally.

Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.) said Tuesday on Fox Business that he “had no fear of losing the House until I saw” the Eldridge commercial. “This is a dangerous time,” he said.

Republicans, however, pointed to the already well-structured, well-financed campaigns that their incumbents have built in anticipation of a rocky relationship with their presidential nominee since Trump and his main rival, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), surged to the front of the pack earlier this year.

GOP strategists signaled Wednesday that they intended to run their campaigns against the likely Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, whose favorable ratings are at an all-time low.

“Republicans will continue to lay out their visions to help our country recover from eight years of the Obama economy and get people back to work. There is a reason Democrats aren’t lining up to campaign with Hillary Clinton. She is a toxic candidate whose failed leadership has put the security of our country at risk,” said Andrea Bozek, spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.

Additionally, Republican super PACs for congressional candidates will probably see their cash advantage grow as some conservatives have signaled their intention to move resources from the presidential campaign to Senate and House races.

This week, Freedom Partners Action Fund, one of several groups aligned with billionaires Charles and David Koch, unleased a $2 million media campaign against Wisconsin Democrat Russ Feingold, a month after another Koch-aligned group, Americans for Prosperity, unveiled a more than $1 million round of ads praising Feingold’s opponent, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.)

   The Senate field has been largely set for several months. The first tier of Republican seats at risk are five incumbents running for their first reelection in states that President Obama won twice, along with the seat of retiring Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). A second tier of seats includes GOP incumbents in North Carolina, Missouri, Arizona and Iowa who were once considered safe but could be in trouble depending on how Trump performs.

Democrats, facing a difficult race in one seat of their own, that of retiring Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), need to win just four seats to claim the majority if Clinton wins the presidency.

House Democrats have been racing to confront this new reality, trying to line up candidates in districts that previously seemed securely in Republican hands.

But House Republicans dismiss claims that their majority is at risk.

“The road back to majority for House Democrats this cycle doesn’t exist, and they know it,” said Katie Martin, spokeswoman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.



politics















Please provide a valid email address. 

SuperFan Badge

SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.

More about badges | Request a badge

Culture Connoisseur Badge

Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.

More about badges | Request a badge

Fact Checker Badge

Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.

More about badges | Request a badge

Washingtologist Badge

Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Writer Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.

Post Forum Badge

Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Weather Watcher Badge

Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.

More about badges | Request a badge

World Watcher Badge

World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Contributor Badge

This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.

More about badges | Request a badge

Post Recommended

Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.

You must be logged in to report a comment.

You must be logged in to recommend a comment.

Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.

All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.

politics









Success! Check your inbox for details.

 Please enter a valid email address 

You might also like: 







See all newsletters

