

Settings

Cancel

Set

Hi 

Already a subscriber?

Subscribe today to additional USAToday products.

Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?

Manage your account settings.

Log Out



Get the news

Share

Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about

One of the women quoted in a New York Times article headlined "Crossing the Line: How Donald Trump Behaved With Women in Private" is pushing back Monday.

A link has been sent to your friend's email address.

A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

One of the women quoted in a New York Times article headlined "Crossing the Line: How Donald Trump Behaved With Women in Private" is pushing back Monday and saying that she was taken out of context and Trump never made her feel uncomfortable.

The piece  — which was published Saturday — begins with the line “Donald J. Trump had barely met Rowanne Brewer Lane when he asked her to change out of her clothes.”

It then continues with a scene illustrated by Brewer Lane about a 1990 pool party at Trump’s Florida beach club.



“He suddenly took me by the hand, and he started to show me around the mansion. He asked me if I had a swimsuit with me. I said no. I hadn’t intended to swim. He took me into a room and opened drawers and asked me to put on a swimsuit.”

But Brewer Lane disputed the way she is portrayed Monday in an interview with Fox & Friends.

"The New York Times told us several times that they would make sure my story that I was telling came across, they promised several times that they would do it accurately, they told me several times and my manager several times that it would not be a hit piece and that my story would come across the way that I was telling it and honestly and it absolutely was not,” Brewer Lane said. “They did take quotes from what I said and they put a negative connotation on it. They spun it to where it appeared negative. I did not have a negative experience with Donald Trump.”

Brewer Lane dated Trump and said that the presumptive Republican nominee “never made me feel like I was being demeaned in any way, he never offended me in any way.”

“Obviously they feel like they need to do something to make him look bad or go along with their article,” Brewer Lane said.

“Why do you think the left — the mainstream media — is so obsessed with just creating this headline about how Donald Trump treats women?” host Ainsley Earhardt asked.

“I don’t know. I think that they’re just reaching for straws,” Brewer Lane said, adding that her manager has reached out to the reporter to say they would be telling her side of the story.

“It just gives journalists a bad name, but I’m glad you’re here to set the record straight,” Earhardt said.

Brewer Lane finished the show by saying that she would be supporting Trump in a general election.

Trump jumped on the interview Monday, sending out a series of tweets about Brewer Lane’s appearance and what he called a “hit piece."

That was an amazing interview on @foxandfriends - I hope the rest of the media picks it up to show how totally dishonest the @nytimes is!

The @nytimes is so dishonest. Their hit piece cover story on me yesterday was just blown up by Rowanne Brewer, who said it was a lie!

Wow, Rowanne Brewer, the most prominently depicted woman in the failing @nytimes story yesterday, was on @foxandfriends saying Times lied

With the coming forward today of the woman central to the failing @nytimes hit piece on me, we have exposed the article as a fraud!

Later Monday, the story's authors, Michael Barbaro and Megan Twohey, appeared on CNN to defend their reporting.

When asked how they felt about the reaction from Trump on the piece, Twohey responded that they had given the presumptive nominee plenty of opportunity to give his side of the story.

“We spoke to Donald Trump for an hour and included his voice in our story and really valued the time that we got to spend with him on the phone," she said. "We believe that you know, at every opportunity we gave him a chance to sort of give his side of the story."

"I  believe Rowanne has asked for an apology. I mean, what do you say?" host Kate Bolduan asked.

“We really stand by our story, we believe we quoted her fairly and accurately and that the story really speaks for itself," Barbaro responded.

